So we come to the end of the course and all roads lead to Jerusalem so we're
gonna take everything we've learned so far and combine it into a narrative
about today and the future. So the grand thesis of this class is that six
societies control the world and this is something you can never prove, okay? But
let me propose a theory of how we can approach the truth, okay? Theory of truth.
If you have a theory or an idea or a narrative and it does these three things
then it approaches the truth. The first is that it connects the past, okay? So
does it help us put the past, things that we know that have in the past, into a
coherent story that we can understand? Okay, that's test number one. Test number two
is it explains the present. Does it help us better understand the world we live
in? And the last and the most important is predicts the future. From this
narrative we should be able to make certain predictions about how events
should develop and if these events turn out to happen the way we predict then we
can be more sure that our theory of truth is correct. Now let's be extremely
precise. Just because things turn out the way that we predict doesn't necessarily
mean that our theories is 100% correct, okay? Because it's really important to
understand that correlation does not necessarily mean causation, okay? So that's
a caveat. No matter how well we predict the future it doesn't necessarily mean
that our theory is 100% correct but our theory gives us a model to understand
the past, the present, and the future, okay? So with very little evidence I'm going to
present to you a theory about how the world works. A story about how we got to
where we are and again this is speculation. Some will call this
conspiracy theory and this is just meant to be a fun class. So take what I say,
we're going to consult, okay? Ask good questions, doubt what I say but what I'll
show you is that this theory even though it doesn't really make much sense and
you may not believe it, it does help us connect the past, explain the present,
and predict the future, okay? All right, so without further ado let's go into this
theory. So you remember Jacob Frank who founded the Sabatini-Francas movement,
okay? And he will convert to the Catholic religion and he will encourage his
followers to also follow him into Catholic religion and also to infiltrate
his societies. One of his friends, one of his patrons, is Mayor Rothschild who is
founder of course the Rothschild banking dynasty which we discussed last class. He
will introduce Jacob Frank to another person named Adam Weishaupt in Bavaria,
okay, in present-day Germany. All right, now Adam Weishaupt, he is actually a
former Jesuit, okay? So he's a member of the Catholic Church, he's also a Jew, okay?
And again, we don't have any evidence that these three actually know each other, but
this is a theory, all right? So let's assume they knew each other, what they
will do together is create a new organization called the Illuminati and
this organization is what controls the world, the Illuminati. Now there is a
legend that Adam Weishaupt, when he created the Illuminati, he encouraged his
followers to infiltrate another organization called the Freemasons and
these were actually prominent members of European society, okay? These were
intellectuals like Gerda, these were nobility, these were bankers and so this
is the framework that controls the world, okay? The Illuminati was
able to penetrate the Freemasons, so now you have an alliance of the
Jesuits, the Jews, the Sephardine Frankists, the Catholics and the
Freemasons, okay? And so this is the alliance of six societies. Now there is
a legend that what happened is that Adam Weishaupt, he was eventually arrested for
conspiracy by the authorities and so the organization, the Illuminati, has been
disbanded and no longer exists, but there are others who argue that's not what
happened. In fact, it was Adam Weishaupt himself who spread the legend that there
was a secret organization called the Illuminati, okay? So the entire
thing was to generate publicity, but in reality, the Illuminati was not disbanded
and it still exists today. So why would they do this? And the reason why is that
secret societies, like every organization, depends on publicity for
recruitment, okay? So it's free publicity if you read a newspaper that
there's a secret organization that's trying to conquer the world and which the
authorities don't like. Then a lot of people will be like, how do I join this
organization, right? And that's what happened, right? So the irony about secret societies
is they have a structure which is like a triangle, okay? At the very top is the
leadership. This leadership is secret. You don't know who they are, you don't know
what they do, okay? But they usually come from very noble families. We call these
the Thirteen Families, okay? Then at the very bottom are just the public members
and they think that what they do is just good stuff, okay? So the Freemasons, they
actually don't know what the leadership does. The key is the middle management,
these people, okay? These people are the ones who do all the work and these
people are selected for ambition. In other words, for power, they're willing to
sell their souls, all right? Okay, so when you have different secret societies
together, a major problem that you have is coordination and the idea here is you
have different leaders and how do you get them to work together? Also, after
these leaders die, how do you ensure that the new leaders will coordinate
together? And the answer to this problem is the idea of eschatology, okay? We'll
discuss eschatology. But eschatology comes from the Greek word eschaton which
means the end. So eschatology means your understanding of how the world ends, of
how to create paradise on earth. And what I will show you is that even though
these different groups have different eschatologies, there are convergence
points which allows them to work together, okay? So let's go over the major
eschatologies and remember what's really important to understand is that these
eschatologies are often secret, they sometimes change and the details will be
different. But so I'm going to present to you more or less a general
understanding of different eschatologies, okay? So let's start with the easiest
which is a Jewish eschatology. What do the Jews believe? Well the Jews believe
that because they disobeyed God, because they worshiped false idols, because they
sinned, they were expelled by God from their homeland, Jerusalem, to wander the
earth which creates the Jewish diaspora. But eventually what will happen is that
a Jewish Messiah will emerge to take the Jews back to Jerusalem, okay? And he will
reconstitute the nation of Israel. He will recreate Israel and then he will
rebuild Solomon's temple. Why? Because Solomon's temple is where God
lives and it is where the people of Israel make sacrifices to Yahweh in
order to show their devotion to Yahweh. So Solomon's temple is really important.
There will be something called the War of Gog and Magog where basically the entire
world unites against Israel, okay? And the War of Gog and Magog will be led by the
Antichrist, the anti-Messiah, the false prophet. We don't know what Gog and Magog
represent, okay? What the Bible says is these are people from the north but that
could mean anyone. And certain Jewish scholars have interpreted Gog and Magog
to represent Russia and Iran, okay? This is important because of what's
happening today, okay? But of course when it seems as though the enemies of Israel,
Gog and Magog, when it seems that they are about to win, God will intervene and
ensure that Israel wins. And this will usher in something called the Messianic Age.
When Israel becomes the most dominant nation on earth, when it becomes the
light of nations, when it becomes the light of the world, okay? Does that make
sense? So that is the Jewish eschatology and most Jews believe this. Then you have
the francus, okay? And the francus, sapatine francus, they make important
changes to this eschatology, okay? The first important change is the Jews
believe that the Messiah will come when the time is right. So most rabbis believe that
the Messiah will come in the year 6000 in the Jewish calendar, which is about the year
2040, sorry, 2020-40 in our calendar, which is about 200 years later, okay? So still a
long time away. But the francus believe that the Messiah has already come, right?
Sapatine Zevi. And then you have Jacob Frank. So they believe that the, first of
all, the Messiah is already here, okay? Which means that the war can
start. Second thing that they believe is that you don't wait for God to intervene.
You can, you can accelerate the Messianic Age by sinning, right? Because by
sinning, what you're doing is you're defying Satan. It's Satan who created this
world, and by sinning, you're defying his laws, you're defying his authority, and
this will create more chaos, and you will reveal how evil this world is. You
will accelerate the collapse, okay? Which will force God to intervene. And then at
during the Messianic Age, what happened is material pleasure, okay? So rather than
everyone being spiritually pure, we'll have a lot of sex. We will have feast. We
will live forever, okay? That's a frankness interpretation of this
eschatology. Does that make sense? Then you have the Christian Zionists, okay? The
Christian Zionists. I'll explain who the Christian Zionists are later on, okay? But
what the Christian Zionists will do is they will take this Jewish eschatology,
but interpret it in a Christian context, okay? So for the Christians, they believe
that yes, all this will happen, okay? The Jews will establish the Messianic Age,
but this is really the Antichrist system, okay? The Antichrist, who is the Jewish
Messiah, will establish a world government that will dominate the world,
and he will establish something called the Mark of the Beast. Mark of the Beast
is basically digital ID, okay? So just think of a microchip in your forehead or
wherever that... and so you can be tracked, you can monitor, okay? So basically an AI
surveillance system, okay? So this is what the Messianic Age of the Jews will look
like, but it's the Antichrist system. And eventually what will happen is that the people
will rebel against Israel, and this will be called the War of Gog and Magog, okay?
And when it seems as though Israel is about to be defeated in the Battle of
Amargadon, okay? What will happen is that Jesus will return. Jesus will return,
second coming, and he will take all the Christians to heaven. It's called the
Rapture. And then he will kill a third of the Jews, a third will convert, and this
will usher the Messianic Age, okay? So this is the Christian interpretation.
It's called Christian Zionism. But as you can see, what's really important is the
Jews first achieve their eschatology before the Christians can achieve
theirs. The Christians need to use the Jews as a tool to achieve the second
coming, okay? Does that make sense? All right, and what's really important is for
Solomon's Temple. Solomon's Temple is where the Al-Aqsaq Mosque is right now. So in
other words, for this eschatology to happen, you will need to destroy the Al-
Aqsaq Mosque, which is the third holiest site in the Islamic world. And you can
imagine how angry Muslims will be, and this might initiate the War of Gog and
Magog, okay? Another important thing about this eschatology that's really
important is you need the Jews to return to Israel. And how do you get the Jews
to return to Israel? Anti-Semitism, okay? So not only do you have to destroy the
Al-Aqsaq Mosque, which is, you know, not very nice, but you also have to promote
anti-Semitism around the world to force the Jews to return. That's another part
of this plan, right? As you can see, this is not a nice plan. It causes a lot of
death, it causes a lot of suffering, it causes a lot of persecution, but both
Jews and Christians believe that for the messianic age to come, there has to be an
age of tribulation, there has to be the Antichrist, there has to be the War of
Gog and Magog, okay? There has to be Emma Garden, basically, all right? So is this
making sense, okay? This is, again, the eschatology, which is a script, which is
the plan that these secret societies must implement in order to achieve heaven on
earth. The last people I want to talk about are the Freemasons, okay? The
Freemasons believe that they are, sorry, the Freemasons believe that they are of
the Enlightenment, okay? Sorry, Freemasons. They are, and they practice a new
philosophy called Theism. What makes Theism different is that it's an
Enlightenment philosophy, so the idea is that God did create the world, the
universe, that's why we are here, but then God left, and now because of free will,
free choice, we can do whatever we want, okay? And our mission is basically to
achieve godhood through science, through open debate, through rational thinking.
And what are the signs of godhood? How do we know that we've become god? When we're
able to do three things, okay? The first thing is to warp reality, okay? To
basically manipulate the essence of matter, and we've been able to do that
because of something called the nuclear bomb, right? So then we've achieved that.
So in other words, the nuclear bomb was a Freemason project to achieve godhood,
but not only that, after they achieved the nuclear bomb, they had to use it to
show that they are god, right? Because as we discussed before, at the end of World
War II, the Americans were firebombing Japan, the war was over. They didn't have
to drop the bomb, but they dropped the bomb on Hiroshima and Nagasaki, okay?
That's number one. Number two is they need to kill a king to show that they are
god, because the king is divinity, right? God gives birth to kings, only gods can
kill a king. And who do they kill? JFK. Okay, again, this is a conspiracy theory,
okay? And the third thing which a god does is create life, okay? And this is
something that they haven't done yet. We're going to imagine what this is. This is AI.
Okay, so these are the three missions of the Freemasons, and they've achieved the
first two. They've worked reality by creating a nuclear bomb, they've killed a king, JFK,
and the third thing they want to do is create life, which is AI, okay? In fact, we can also
guess where this AI will take place. Why? Because let's look at a map.
Okay, let's look at a map. This is the equator.
33 degrees north of the equator are four places, okay? Now 33 degrees is very important in
Freemasonry. There are 33 degrees in Scottish Rite Freemasonry. It's a very sacred number,
right? So 33 degrees north of the equator, you have four places. The first place is Trinity Site,
New Mexico in America, which is where they tested the atomic bomb, okay? You go over across the
Pacific to Japan, 33 degrees north is Hiroshima and Nagasaki.
All right, 33 degrees north in America is Dallas, Texas, where they killed JFK.
So the last mission of Freemasons to achieve their vision for the world
is creating AI, right? Now the question is, where would they do it? And the answer is 33 degrees
north of the equator, right? And where is that? Jerusalem. So this is the end game, guys. The
Freemasons will create artificial intelligence in Jerusalem, and this will become the world government.
Again, this is just a conspiracy theory. Don't believe this. This is just for fun, okay? But if
it happens like this, then that's interesting, okay? But that is the grand plan, to create a world
government in Jerusalem. And where's the center of this world government? Solomon's Temple.
Because the Freemasons believed that their founder was the one who created Solomon's Temple. So by
creating Solomon's Temple, you close the circle, okay? So again, this is very complicated,
and I don't want to get too many things wrong, but this is a general gist
of it. And so what we can see is that all roads lead to Jerusalem. Now that is the case, okay?
Then this helps us to understand certain things about the world that otherwise don't make any
sense, all right? So let's go over them. The first thing that doesn't make any sense is America's
war on terror. Yes, I understand that America was attacked on 9-11. I understand that. But
why did they have to go attack Libya and Iraq and all these other places that have nothing to do
with Al-Qaeda, okay? And the answer is they're trying to create something called the Greater
Israel Project. They're trying to have Israel become Pax Judaica, the grand power in the Middle
East, because that's important in all secret societies. Israel must become the dominant power
in the Middle East, okay? So this helps us understand why the war of terror happened the
way it did. That's number one. Number two is right now America is threatening to attack Iran.
Why would they do that? Because in order for Pax Judaica to come into being,
Iran must be taken out of the equation. Iran must be destroyed. Then if that would happen,
there'd be no challenge to the power of Pax Judaica, okay? Does that make sense?
All right, the third thing is Silicon Valley and AI. So right now you have
AI, Chat GPT, which doesn't really do anything, okay? It makes cool images
on your computer and helps you cheat on in school, okay? That's about it.
Doesn't really do anything else. And if you don't go to school, then you're like,
why am I using Chat GPT, okay? And you're not going to pay a lot of money for it. So AI,
it's a dead end. At the same time, all around the world, everyone's spending billions,
$200 on data centers, right? So everyone's putting money into AI. But then you're like, well,
how can you make money off that? If you think the answer is for you to use AI,
it's hard to make money off that. But if the answer is to create an AI surveillance state,
that makes a lot more sense, right? So what is surveillance state? Very easy, guys.
We have it in China, okay? It's digital ID and digital currency. And the idea is that
everything you buy, everything you do will be tracked. And so they can create a profile on you.
This profile will tell the government who you are, how you behave, what you think. Not only
that, the government can also manipulate how you think, how you behave, okay? And this is,
of course, called a mark of the beast, right? And so that's what Pax2DK is. Pax2DK is a global
AI surveillance system, okay? It also helps us explain
immigration in Europe, okay? Because the war and terror, you've sent these millions of refugees
from Libya, Syria, Afghanistan, Iraq into Europe, which is causing a lot of conflict in Europe.
What would that happen? Well, for Pax2DK to come into being, you need to destroy the world.
Okay? So I'm not saying this is true, but I'm saying that if the goal is Pax2DK, it does help
us connect the dots. It helps us explain why things are happening the way they are, okay?
Also, the last thing is anti-Semitism, okay? So you may have noticed, if you're online,
people don't like the Jews. And this is, like, out of nowhere. After October 7th,
you have anti-Semitism all over the internet. Now, I have criticized Israel before, okay? But
anti-Semitism is not the same as anti-Zionism, right? Zionism is a belief that Israel is a
chosen people and the promised land and all that, okay? But Judaism, as religion, it's
perfectly fine. So why would people not care about the difference between anti-Zionism and
anti-Semitism, okay? And you can argue it's all purposeful because, remember, the part of the plan
is to force the Jews to return to Israel. That's very important for this plan to work out, okay?
It's key. That's why you are seeing so much anti-Semitism around the world today, okay?
And the last thing, of course, and it's something we'll discuss is something called the Red Heifers.
So Red Heifers are red cows that are perfectly genetically modified. And you need the Red Heifers
in order to, you have to sacrifice the Red Heifers to purify the ground in order to reconstruct
Solomon's temple, okay? And guess what? They've already sacrificed the Red Heifers.
So it seems as though everything is in place, all right? They're moving towards Pax Judaica.
All right, so let's discuss what will happen in the short term and in the long term if Pax
Judaica really is the end goal, okay? So many of Israel fighting wars everywhere, okay? The main
enemy right now is Iran. In Europe, you have the Europeans about to go to war with Russia in Ukraine.
Okay, America right now is threatening to attack Venezuela, okay? South America. You have 10% of the
U.S. Navy in the Caribbean and they're about to attack Venezuela. You have China
and Japan at conflict. You have India here and you have Africa, okay? So what's going to happen
in the short term? Okay, well, what we know is that Europe is planning to go to war with Russia.
Okay, Europe is about to go to war with Russia, okay? At the same time, you have a lot of immigrants
in Europe and this is going to create civil wars in Europe, okay? Civil war. So you have both
war with Russia as well as civil war. So Europe is kind of screwed, okay?
Okay, America has the same situation where the left-right divide is so polarized that eventually
they'll go to war. If you read the news, you may have heard about the shootings at Brown University
as well as MIT physicists who were shot, okay? So random violence will be more and more common
in the United States and you can argue that it's all deliberate because the idea is this. Let's just
say you have a jar. You put red ants in the jar and black ants in a jar. They get along fine,
but you take the jar and you just shake it up and now they're at war with each other, okay? That's
what's happening where the left and right, they really don't like each other. They don't talk to
each other and they refuse to engage in debate with each other, but they're not going to fight
each other unless there's violence, in which case their trouble mentality is over and they start
killing each other, okay? So we're going to expect civil war in the United States. Then you're
going to have the Americans start to attack Venezuela and possibly other countries in South
America. So America is in for a bad time, okay? China, yeah, I mean Japan and China and India,
they're all going to have conflicts with each other, but also what we should expect is that
America starts to embargo China, meaning America uses its sea power to block China
from accessing resources, more seas, and China imports most of its oil and a lot of its food.
So if there's a blockade of China, you can expect the Chinese economy to really suffer, okay?
All right, and then what we can expect to happen is America at some point will go to war with Iran
and this will destroy both countries, okay? Iran will not lose this war, but it won't win this war
either because America is just going to bomb the crap out of Iran. It's just going to send Iran
back decades, but America will lose this war, but this is important because if America loses this
war, it's forced out of the Middle East. And once it's forced out of the Middle East,
all its military assets goes to Israel, which creates the Pax Judaica. Does that make sense,
guys? That's the plan, right? Now you have Pax Judaica. And what Pax Judaica will do is start to
control the world because through chaos and conflict, Pax Judaica can make a lot of money,
right? Because Pax Judaica, what's going to happen is that you have these technology companies at
Google. They're going to move over to Pax Judaica and build a global surveillance state. You have
civil wars. You need AI to control people. If you're going to war with Russia, you need weapons,
okay? But you also need financing as well. So you can expect a lot of banks to move to Israel,
and it's possible Israel becomes now the global reserve currency because everyone is trading with
Israel. If you're in Russia, you need to trade your resources, right? Oil, energy and grain,
okay? So Russia controls a third of the world's carbohydrates. Guess what, guys? Israel controls
Africa. So what will happen is that Russia and other countries will sign a trade agreement with
Israel, and Israel becomes the center of global trade, okay? Does that make sense? So this is how
Pax Judaica will profit. And remember that Israel has the world's best intelligence agency,
the Mossad. And what they can do is go around the world and create as much chaos as possible.
So while the world is burning, Israel, Pax Judaica, is profiting. And that's what the future
looks like for the next 10, 20 years. And this will, of course, lead to the rise of the Antichrist,
who will take control of Pax Judaica and force the world to eventually attack Israel in something
called the War of Gog and Magog. And this will, of course, lead to the second coming of Jesus. So
that's the grand plan, okay? Any questions? Does it make sense to you guys? I know it's evil,
and you know what? I could be a complete idiot, okay? I could just make it all myself. But you
have to ask yourself three questions. Does it connect the past? Does it explain what's happened
in the past? Does it explain what's happening today? And will these things happen in the future,
okay? So we haven't lived with the future yet, but you can see the trends. Yeah, Vincent?
Go ahead. You said that AI, they will guard, create lives, and create AI
at Jerusalem. But I think, like, Chad GBT, they already create AI in Silicon Valley.
Okay. Chad GBT is not AI. It's an LLMM, okay? Like, artificial intelligence is a
thinking, conscious sentient force. That's like God. So they're trying to create God in Jerusalem,
okay? Out of someone's temple. Does that make sense? Okay. Any more questions before we go
to the PPT? But you guys understand what's happening, right? Okay, let's go to the PPT.
And again, guys, it's all just speculation on my part. I have no idea what will happen,
okay? Like everyone else, okay? All right, guys, the promised land. This is the greater Israel
project, okay? This is what Yahweh promised to Abraham in the Bible. As you can see, it's pretty
huge. It's the entire Middle East. It extends from the Nile to the Euphrates in Iraq, okay? It's a
huge area. And if you say the Israelis want to achieve the greater Israel project, they call
you conspiracy theorists. Like, we don't want that, okay? But explain two things to me. First of all,
why is the greater Israel map on a sarong of an IDF soldier, okay? These are soldiers,
Israeli soldiers, and they wear the insignia of the greater Israel project, okay? This is the map.
Also, if you look at the flag of Israel, there are two blue lines, right? These represent rivers,
the Nile and the Euphrates, all right? So if it's a conspiracy theory, then how do you explain these
two things? All right, but I want to argue to you, you know what? Pax Judaica, it's not about Israel
or the greater Israel project. What it is ultimately is an alliance of transnational capital,
multinationals like Google and Meta, and intelligence agencies that were based in
Jerusalem, okay? So secret societies will be based in Jerusalem and they will use it as a headquarters
for their global conspiracy, and they will profit from chaos and conflict around the world because
they think that this is the culmination of the prophecy. But it doesn't necessarily mean that
Jews will be in charge, okay? Does that make sense, guys? Okay, so it's a much more complicated idea
than people think it is. All right, so where do we get this stupid idea from, okay? It actually
starts with Isaac Newton. So Isaac Newton, you learn about him in physics class, you learn that
he's the founder of calculus, you learn about Newtonian mechanics, okay? But actually these are
just side projects of his. That was not his focus. He spent most of his life focusing on
reading the Bible to understand the grand plan of God, and he wrote a book called
Observations Upon the Prophecy of Daniel and the Apocalypse of Saint John, okay?
That's where his focus was, and he believed he found the Bible code, and he was a member of secret
societies. He was a member of the British elite, and if someone like Isaac Newton is telling you,
like, this is what the Bible says, and this guy who found a calculus and who developed the three
laws of motion, you'll probably believe him, okay? But the guy was insane. All right, so what he did
was he just looked at certain sections of the Bible and put them together into a story about,
okay? And so this is Ezekiel 37, and so Ezekiel 37 says that the Lord God tells the prophet
Ezekiel that, yes, I've scattered the people of Israel, but now I bring them back together,
and then I will make your nation great. I will make flowers bloom. I will make your city prosperous,
okay? And this is all in the Bible. Ezekiel 38 says that eventually there will be a war of Gog
and Magog when Gog and Magog will come invade Israel, but God will come and defend Israel,
and he will destroy Gog and Magog. And if you read the Bible, we're not talking about the Bible,
but it's really violent language. So the Israelis believe that for heaven to come,
the first must be hell on earth. All right, so Newton's plan to force second coming,
okay? And this becomes the basis of Freemasonry, right? Freemasons were really invented in order
to promote the second coming plan. The Freemasons were first in England, but then where did they go?
They went to America. Many of the founding fathers of America, including Benjamin Franklin,
George Washington, were Freemasons. So America was founded in many ways to achieve this plan,
okay? So what's the plan? Well, you have to first reconstitute the nation of Israel
and make it prosperous, okay? It's really important that it becomes very wealthy,
and in fact Israel is one of the wealthiest countries in the world. You have to have the
Jewish diaspora return to Israel, and that means you promote prosperity, but you also have to
promote a Jewish conspiracy. So while you're letting the Jews get rich in the West, you're also
promoting the idea that the Jews control the world, okay? It's all part of this plan.
You have to have rebuilds on this temple, you have to have the War of Gog and Magog,
you have to have the Antichrist, you have to have the emigrant, okay? And this will force Jesus to
return and usher in the Millennium Age, okay? Does that make sense? That's a grand plan.
And unfortunately, most of these things have been achieved, okay? These are the Freemasons,
and the top leadership is focused on achieving this plan developed by Newton. Eventually what
happens is that Adam Weishaupt will found the Illuminati with Jacob Frank, and they will
infiltrate Freemasons. And why do the Freemasons allow Adam Weishaupt and the Illuminati to
infiltrate the Freemasons? Because Jews are an important part of this plan. They need Jews in
place. They need Jews to go back to Jerusalem and build the nation of Israel and conquer the world
in order for this plan to work out, okay? So it is an alliance between the Freemasons and the Illuminati.
This is Rothschild, and Rothschild will establish many branches throughout Europe, okay? Jacob Frank
we've discussed in the past. But this is a major alliance, okay? All right, once we understand that
it's the secret societies and their grand plan in motion, now it helps us understand why things
turn out the way they did. For example, now we understand where British philosophy comes from.
We discussed last class about John Locke, David Hume, Bentham, Mill, Marx, Darwin, okay? These are
all thinkers sponsored by Britain to propose, to promote a certain understanding of the world that
is materialistic and which will build foundation for the second coming, okay? So John Locke said
pirate property is what's important. David Hume, philosophy is pointless. Don't think about God,
just focus on material wealth. Jeremy Bentham, utility is everything, okay? How do we know what's
good, what's right, if it benefits someone, okay? John Stuart Mill, liberty of the individual is
everything. So making sure that people are individually happy as opposed to being spiritual.
Karl Marx, freedom of the individual from material want. Charles Darwin, man is a monkey, okay?
So this is promoting a certain worldview that will help promote the second coming.
All right, so look, if you just look at science, there's certain things they study and certain
things they don't study. For example, they spend a lot of time studying particle physics. Who cares?
Can I ask you this question, who cares about particle physics? They spend billions,
trillions of dollars on this stupid thing. They built something called a CERN particle
collider to figure out what the underlying atom is, okay? Is it really important? Isn't something
world poverty more important? I don't know. You can take all that money you spend on a
stupid collider and make sure everyone in the world has enough to eat. They don't want to do that,
though, all right? You also have to focus on outer space, AI, okay? So the very direction of science,
it's very, very specific, okay? They're trying to achieve a materialist understanding of the world.
And also, if you try to, this is the collider, okay? Again, I don't understand why they're
spending trillions of dollars on this stupid thing. This is the current collider LXC
in Switzerland, and now they're going to build a bigger one. Can you see how big it is, right?
What are they trying to do here? Are they really trying to figure out particle physics? Maybe,
maybe not, all right? All right, guys, Jacob Frank. What Jacob Frank tells us
is there are different dimensions, okay? And another dimension is Big Brother,
who's a friend of his, but he's stuck in his dimension. He's trying to come to our dimension,
but he needs our help. So what's certain particle accelerators trying to do, right? Is it really
trying to discover particle physics, or is it really trying to break the dimensions, like they
did with the nuclear bomb? Okay, do you understand? People believe the nuclear bomb is really about
creating an interdimensional portal for Big Brother to come into, and now people are saying,
is it possible the certain particle accelerator is trying to bring in these interdimensional
demons to our world to conquer us, to enslave us? That would make a lot more sense in particle
physics, okay, guys? All right, what does science not study, okay? It doesn't study
consciousness, which is the number one problem in the world, right? Wouldn't it be nice to know
how we think, okay? Wouldn't it be nice to know how I come up with the ideas I do in class and
teach it to you, and how you respond to my ideas? Or is that a much more basic problem in particle
physics? We don't do that, guys, okay? There's absolutely no money or very limited funding
in the study of consciousness. Imagination, intuition, anything in material spirit, okay?
Like ghosts or spirits, we don't study at all. Religion is truth. We also don't study kindness,
happiness, and love, okay? We don't study what is the basis of these things. We don't care.
We don't study telepathy, connection. We don't study intelligence of animals and plants. We
also don't study ancient architecture and civilizations. So if you go to these ancient
sites like Copletepe, we discussed Copletepe before, we only have uncovered 5% of it, okay?
We don't care what is underneath Copletepe, because it's possible that if we were to discover
everything, then it would refute traditional paradigms of the world, including evolution,
all right? So science is focused on spreading one particular paradigm about the world and
discounting everything else, all right? So why is that? Okay, another thing that's really
interesting about science is it hasn't really improved in the past 50, 70 years. We're spending
billions, $200 on science, but we haven't really improved science that much. There have been no
great discoveries, and there are three reasons why, okay? The first is specialization. You're
only allowed to focus on one very specific problem, and without being able to think of
science very broadly, it's hard to come up with new discoveries, all right? The other thing is
you have a very strict bureaucracy. So as a scientist, you spend most of your time actually
applying for funding. You actually don't spend most of your time trying to solve the problems of
the universe. The third thing is credentialism, where if you don't have a certain PhD and you
don't belong to a major research university, you're not allowed to talk about science, okay?
So because of these three reasons, it's hard to do science. It's hard to discover truth,
and that's the intention. The intention is to prevent people from discovering the truth of the
world, okay? Now, science is not very good at creating new things, but it's very good at
faking things, okay? It's very good at faking things. Also, guys, it's possible they might
fake something else called an alien invasion. Science is very good at that. It's not good at
creating spaceships, but it's good at faking spaceships, okay? There's a difference.
All right, so this is Thomas Kuhn, and he wrote something called The Structure of Scientific
Revolutions, and he just says it's natural for paradigms, new ideas, it takes a very long time
for paradigms to take shape. But then if that's the case, how do we explain Einstein? The moment
he proposed relativity, boom, he's famous, world famous, okay? How do you explain Darwin? The
moment he proposed evolution, boom, he's world famous. It's really strange to think that
he's world famous. It's really strange, like, this way, okay? And so one explanation is secret
societies control the world, they have a certain eschatology, and they are promoting things that
push their eschatology forward, and that's how the world works, okay? So you think, okay, all right.
We also discussed last class the idea of conspic, written by this
Jew in Britain who becomes the first Jewish Prime Minister, Benjamin Disraeli, and it's about how
Jews control the world, and we were like, why is this happening? And I said, because it's part of
the plan, because not only are Jews supposed to prosper in the West, but people are supposed to
think that they are part of a grand conspiracy, okay? Because the end goal is anti-Semitism and
forcing them to return to Israel, okay? All right, so with this plan in motion, obviously,
the secret societies cannot themselves come out and propose this plan, the secret societies, okay?
So they have different individuals do this for them. This is Theodore Herzl, who is considered
the founder of Zionism. The idea of Zionism is that Jews deserve their own homeland, preferably
in Palestine, okay? Current day Israel, and he wrote a book called The State for the Jews, okay?
And it was heavily promoted in 1896. You also have something called the Schofield Bible, okay?
Which is to take Newton's plan and turn it and then explain how the Bible and the plan work together,
okay? And this is called pre-millennial dispensationalism, okay? Don't worry
about the idea, okay? All right, so 1917, you have Lord Rothschild, okay? Balfour, the British
government, is sending a letter to Lord Rothschild saying, I have the pleasure of allowing you to
create a homeland for the Jews, okay? So again, this is part of the plan where the British
want to create Israel, but they're blaming the Jews for it, okay? They're saying, it's the Jews
who want to create Israel. Okay, so in 1948, they create the nation of Israel, okay? This is Theodore
Herzl. Remember, okay? The nation of Israel, it is not part of this grand plan. It's what the
Jews aspire to. It's what the Jews want. It's all initiated by the Jews, okay? This is really important.
Okay, now one thing that they say, one thing that the Israelis say is that
we deserve Palestine because this is what God promised to us in the Bible.
We are descendants of the Israelites. We are Hebrew. We're all one blood. Now, the great thing
about Jews, okay? And this is why I have tremendous respect for Jews, is these Jewish intellectuals,
they are first and foremost committed to the truth. So this is Arthur Kessler, okay? Who is
a Jewish intellectual. He wrote something called The Thirteenth Tribe, and this book, what he tells
us is, this is nonsense, okay? The Jews, most of them don't come from Israel. They don't come
from the Middle East. They come from Ukraine, okay? And this is called The Thirteenth Tribe,
and it explains how what happened, okay? So, Amber, could you read, please?
All right, could you read this passage, okay? At the beginning of the eighth century, the world
was polarized between the two super powers representing Christianity and Islam. So these
two powers are the Byzantine Empire as well as the Abbasid Caliphate, okay? Their ideological
doctrines were welded to power politics pursued by the classical methods of propaganda,
subversion, and military conquest. The Khazar Empire represented a third force which had proved
equal to either of them, both as an adversary and an ally. But it could only maintain its
independence by accepting neither Christianity nor Islam, for either choice would have automatically
subordinated it to the authority of the Roman Emperor of the Caliph of Baghdad.
Okay, so do you understand this idea? It's very simple. You have these three powers
in Eurasia. You have the Byzantines, and you have the Abbasids, okay? Byzantines are Christian,
the Abbasids are Muslim, and these are the two dominant religions. And the Khazars
think they're a power, and if they convert to, well, they're pagan. If they convert to Christianity,
they now have to obey Byzantines. If they convert to Islam, they now have to obey
the Abbasids. They don't do either, okay? So they pick another religion, which is Judaism,
right? And it makes sense because Judaism is the first religion. It is from Judaism in which you
have Islam as well as Christianity, and therefore Judaism is superior, and therefore we Khazars are
superior, okay? So this makes perfect sense, right? Keep on going. There had been no lack of efforts
by either court to convert Khazars to Christianity or Islam, but all they resulted in was the
exchange of diplomatic courtesies, dynamic inter marriages, and shifting military alliances based
on mutual self-interest. Relying on its military strength, the Khazar kingdom with its hinterland
of vassal tribes was determined to preserve its position as the third force, leader of the
uncommitted nations of the steppes. Okay, so the Khazar empire is very ambitious as well,
okay? It sees itself as a great power. Eventually, it wants to unite the different tribes of steppe
nations and conquer the world, but to do that, it needs its own distinct identity. So it's not
going to convert to Christianity or Islam, right? Keep on going. At the same time, there are intimate
contexts with the Byzantium and the Caliphate had taught the Khazars at their primitive
shamanism was not only barbaric and outdated compared to the great monotheistic creeds,
but also unable to confer on the leaderships the spiritual and legal authority which the rulers
of the two theocratic world powers, the caliph and the emperor, enjoyed. Yet the conversion to either
creed would have meant submission, the end of independence, and thus would have defeated its
purpose. What could have been more logical than to embrace a third creed, which was uncommitted
towards either of the two, yet represented of the venerable foundation of both? Okay, this is a very
simple idea. Monotheism is very important because if one god gives ultimate authority to one person,
which allows for the creation of empire, right? Otherwise, every god is equal and you have like
a lot of gods. So it's important to have one god. You have three religions that celebrate one god.
You have Islam, which is doing very well. You have Christianity, which is doing really well.
You have Judaism, and no one's practicing Judaism, so let's just take it for ourselves.
Really simple, okay? So this was a math conversion of an entire people to Judaism, okay? Does that
make sense? All right, and so this is what the map looks like. As you can see, it's huge area. This
is Ukraine, okay? Monday, Ukraine, the Khazar Empire, then you have the Byzantines, and you have
the Abbasids, and the Khazars saw themselves as equal to both. They want to maintain a separate
identity, okay? They don't want to be consumed by either empire, okay? And this is another map that
shows Khazaria, okay? And then, yeah.
All right, can you keep on reading? The only mercy shown by history to those who took to flight
or were driven to it was the existence of Khazaria, both before and after the conversion.
Okay, so does this make sense? So Jews are being persecuted in Europe all the time.
They have no place to go except Khazaria, which is now the Jewish homeland,
and the Jews know about Khazaria because they're traders, they're merchants,
they're part of the diaspora, so information is spreading about Khazaria, and they all go there,
and these Jews are heavily intellectual, and so they bring their cultural practices to Khazaria.
Also, we discussed this before. What is a Jewish person? A Jewish person is not someone who is born
Jewish. A Jewish person is someone who reads the Bible and accepts the cultural practice of the
Jews, and therefore, it's really easy to become a Jew. Keep on going.
Before, it was a refugee haven. After, it became a kind of national home. The refugees were products
of a superior culture and were no doubt an important factor in creating that cosmopolitan,
tolerant outlook, which so impressed the Arab chroniclers quoted before. Their influence and
no doubt their proselytizing zeal. This was an age when converting unbelievers by force
or persuasion was a foremost concern that the Jews, too, indulged in it. It is shown by the
fact that since the rule of Justinian law threatened severe punishments for the attempt to convert
Christians to Judaism, while for Jews molesting converts to Christianity, the penalty was death
by fire, Sharf p25, would have made itself felt first and foremost at the court and among leading
notables. They may have combined in their missionary efforts theological arguments
and messianic prophecies with a shrewd assignment of the political advantages
that the Khazars would derive from adopting a neutral religion. The exiles also brought with
them Byzantine arts and crafts, superior methods in agriculture and trade, and the square Hebrew
alphabet. Okay, so not only did the Khazars wanted their own religion that was distinct from Byzantines
and the Abbasids, but they also wanted the skills, the knowledge, the culture, the science, the
medicine that the Jews would bring with them. So this marriage made perfect sense. So from logical
perspective, this makes complete sense. Unfortunately, you're not allowed to discuss this because
it's embarrassing for the nation of Israel. They're not saying this is not what happened
because there's all evidence to suggest this is what happened. They're saying you're not allowed
to discuss this. Okay, all right, can you keep on reading? Ethically, the Semitic tribes...
Ethically, the Semitic tribes on the waters... Okay, sorry, sorry, sorry, sorry, so okay. So
Khazaria is around for a long time, a few centuries, but then eventually they become conquered by the
Mongols. The Mongols are ferocious, they're killing a lot of people, so these Khazarians have no choice
but to immigrate over to East Asia, sorry, to Eastern Europe, okay, and then they become the
European Jews, all right? And so what Kessler is going to do is he's going to show evidence to
suggest that they all came from one place, all these different European Jews. They have similar
cultural practices, which means they originate from a similar place, okay? Can you keep on going?
Ethically... Ethically, the Semitic tribes on the waters of the Jordan and the Turko-Khazar tribes
on the Volga were, of course, miles apart, but they had at least two important formative factors in
common. Each lived at a focal junction where the great trade routes connecting East and West, North
and South intersect, a circumstance which predisposed them to become nations of traitors,
of enterprising travelers, or rootless cosmopolitans, as hostile propaganda has
unaffectionately labeled them. But at the same time, their exclusive religion fostered a tendency
to keep themselves and stick together, to establish their own communities with their
own places of worship, schools, residential quarters and ghettos, originally self-imposed,
in whatever town or country they settled. This rare combination of wanderlust and ghetto mentality,
reinforced by Mesantic hopes and chosen race pride, both ancient Israelites and medieval Khazars
shared, even though the latter traced their descendant not to Shem, but to Japheth.
So generically speaking, the Khazarians and the Israelites have nothing in common, okay? But they
share similar culture, and that's who we ultimately are. We're products of culture as opposed to
genes, okay? These are Karaites in basically Ukraine, okay? And as you can see, they're Jews
and they practice the Khazarian version of Judaism, okay? The first impression, okay?
The first impression one gains is a striking similarity between certain privileged positions
held by Khazar Jews in Hungary and Poland in those early days. Both the Hungarian and Polish
sources refer to Jews employed as mintmasters, administrators of the royal revenue, controllers
of the salt monopoly, tax collectors and money lenders, i.e. bankers. This parallel suggests
a common origin of those two immigrant communities, and as we can trace the origins of the bulk
of Hungarian Jewry to the Magyar-Khazar nexus, the conclusion seems self-evident. Okay, all right,
thank you, thank you. All right, so this just makes sense, okay? There's a lot of evidence
to suggest that the Khazars were Jews, and this is important to understand because, guess what?
The Khazar Jews, they will take over Europe, okay? And you have three different types of Jews.
You have the Sephardic Jews, which was basically the Jews who were expelled from Spain, okay? These
are real Jews. You have the Masari Jews who were in the Islamic world. Again, these are real Jews.
The blue, these Ashkenazi Jews, they're not real Jews. They're converted, okay? This is something
you're not to discuss at all, even though the evidence is so stark. The other issue with the
Ashkenazi is that they make up 80% of all Jews in the world today, okay? And so you go to Israel
and they say, we're here because this is what God promised to us. That's nonsense. But again,
you're not to discuss this, even though, again, the evidence is stark, all right? All right, so
this conspiracy also helps us, again, explain the JFK assassination, okay? As well as, so this is a
book, King Kill. You can read it online for yourself. It's by Daudert and Hoffman. It goes into
why the Freemasons would want to kill JFK, the sort of ritual sacrifice ideas behind it, okay?
9-11, all right? Why did 9-11 happen? Because it's all part of this grand plan. 9-11 happened
because America needed to go to Middle East and destroy the Middle East to create Pax Judaica,
and that's exactly what they did. Again, Al-Qaeda is, yes, I understand Al-Qaeda did 9-11, but then
why did you have to go destroy Libya? Why did you have to go destroy Afghanistan and Iraq and
Syria, okay? So, and the last place that they need to destroy is Iran in order to achieve the
Pax Judaica project, okay? ISIS, guys. ISIS is, you know, these fanatical Muslims, and they hate
Israel, but they never attacked Israel, okay? They've never ever in their history attacked Israel.
That's why they're probably controlled by the Mossad, okay? And these guys go around and destroy
the entire Middle East, but they never attacked Israel, okay? Really strange how this happens,
okay? And all this war and terror, what it does is it creates all these millions of migrants
to Europe, which is destabilizing European society. And these societies, look, Libya was once a middle
class, prosperous society, and now you have these slave markets. You've got these millions of
Africans who are sold as slaves in Libya. It is an anarchy now.
Okay, so 2015, you have all these immigrants going to Europe, and the Europeans are like,
we don't want these immigrants because what are they going to do with these immigrants? They're
poor, we don't have the money, we don't have the system in order to accommodate these immigrants.
And Angela Merkel, who is the leader of Europe at this time, the German Chancellor, she says,
we can do this, guys! We can do this! And it has become a dumpster fire, okay? And like, guys,
in 2015, everyone knew this was going to happen. Everyone knew that if you brought in millions of
immigrants who did not speak English, who did not share European cultural values, and who didn't
have much education, this would happen, okay? Europeans are not as open as the Americans are,
okay? And even these immigrants are causing problems in America, right? And at no point
did the Europeans say, screw you, America, you did this to us. At no point, okay? And you could
argue that, okay, maybe it's bureaucratic incompetence, but at the same time, it could
also be part of the grand plan to create Jax-Pashidega. This is October 7th, when Hamas
went and killed a lot of Israelis. And this, of course, led to what's happening in Gaza today,
okay? And what's happening in Gaza today led to all these protests for Palestine around the world
and a surge in anti-Semitism. And this surge in anti-Semitism will ultimately lead to killings
around the world. So this is Bondi Beach in Sydney, Australia, where if you read the news,
two Islamic State supporters killed 15 Jews celebrating a Jewish festival in Bondi Beach.
And quite honestly, we can expect more of this to happen in the future. And you can say this is all
just an accident, or you can say, well, you know, it's part of the plan, guys, okay? These are the
red heifers. And these red heifers were spent, people spent millions of dollars to generally
create perfect red heifers because nature doesn't produce perfect red heifers. And what people say,
the rumor is that these red heifers have been sacrificed already. So now they're getting ready
to rebuild Solomon's Temple, which will be the site of the royal government, okay? Packed in the AI
Cup. Let's go to Silicon Valley, okay? Bill Gates, Mark Zuckerberg,
Jeff Bezos, Elon Musk, how did they become billionaires? Guys, I don't think they're
smarter than us. In fact, I don't think that that's smart, okay? Steve Jobs is a smart guy.
I will say Steve Jobs is a really smart guy, but these other guys are pretty normal guys.
How did they become billionaires? All right, so Silicon Valley. People say that
Silicon Valley is the hotbed of innovation. That is complete and utter nonsense. The hotbed of
innovation is the American military because they spent billions of dollars on innovation, okay? So
these are computers that develop for war purposes, okay? For the nuclear bomb, to fight World War II,
to fight the Cold War. They spent billions of dollars to develop this technology,
and then what happened was this technology became smaller and smaller, and so much smaller that
Steve Wozniak was able to take this technology and create an own personal computer. Now this is kind
of strange because this R&D was funded by the American government. How did this one guy,
Steve Wozniak, how was he able to take all this knowledge and then go and make his own computer?
What did the American military let him? In fact, what's really strange is that while Steve
Wozniak was building his own computer, which will become the Apple computer,
he was working for Hewlett-Packard. In other words, everything he did should have been the IP
of Hewlett-Packard, and in fact, Steve Wozniak said to his boss, listen, you guys pay me, you guys
train me. If you want this PC that I'm going to create, I'm happy to give it to you, and Hewlett-Packard
said to him, no, keep it for yourself. That's really strange, guys. What corporation is so
generous? Why would they do that? Well, there are three good reasons, okay? The first reason is that
if the American military were to promote personal computers, every American in the world would say,
screw you, okay? You guys are in the military, you guys are responsible for the Vietnam War,
you guys are responsible for millions of deaths around the world, why would I take a computer
from you, knowing that it's from the military? You're going to use a computer to spy on me, man.
You're going to use this computer to turn me into a robot. There's no way I'm going to touch this
computer. But it's coming from Steve Jobs. That's different, right? Oh, Steve Jobs, he's a visionary.
He's messianic. Of course I'll buy this personal computer from Steve Jobs, okay?
Second is, at this time in history, America is at war with the Soviet Union, okay? Which system is
better? Communism or capitalism? And so if you said that, okay, we're the government and we spend
billions of dollars to build this technology, that proves communism is better, right? But if it's like,
no, no, no, it's these guys working by themselves in Silicon Valley in the garage, they get all
these ideas from themselves, that proves capitalism is better, okay? That proves entrepreneurship is
better. And the last reason, and this is most important, is if the U.S. government built this
knowledge, all right, it belongs to American people. So how do you monetize public knowledge
when you create private companies controlled by secret societies? That makes perfect sense, right?
And we can now understand all these guys, Bill Gates, Elon Musk, they're front people. They're
just poster boys. They're not really in command. It's these societies that's really in control, okay?
Sorry. All right, another example is Google. So the American military spent billions of dollars,
trillions of dollars of taxpayer money to build this fiber optic network, which is the base of
the internet, okay? With this fiber optic network, you couldn't have the internet.
And then these two guys in their 20s took over this network and created Google. It's the same thing as,
you know, the government spends billions of dollars building a highway, okay? And then you come along
and say, I'm going to build a toll booth. Same thing. Why were they allowed to do that? But not only that,
but now they're slowly building their own underwater fiber optic network. So they're basically
prioritizing this network, created by the American military. Yes, I understand they're spending
their own money to build this network, but it's the American military that spent taxpayer money
to build, to do the R&D for all this, okay? That's where the real value is.
Mark Zuckerberg, guys. Look, look, he's not that smart, okay? And look, the other thing is,
he was 19 years old, he stole this idea from his Harvard classmates, and then he got billions of
dollars from venture capitalists to start Facebook. Why did he get this money? Facebook is not a good
idea, right? Social media, great, but I mean, like, I could also start a social media company. You
could start a social media company. The other thing is, like, Yahoo at one point offered this guy
a billion dollars to buy Facebook. We'll give you a billion dollars. That's a lot of money, right?
You would have taken, I would have taken it, but Mark Zuckerberg was like, nah, I wouldn't know what
to do with the money. That's retarded. Why didn't you start Facebook in the first place but to make
money? Okay? So you have these three questions. First of all, why are these people giving him money?
He's just a 19-year-old guy. He's a Harvard dropout. That's all he is. No experience, nothing.
Second question is, if you're someone who's that young and you succeed so much, you would
suffer from hubris, from ego. You make a lot of mistakes, right? The guy has never failed in his
life. The third thing, of course, is I understand why Amazon, Google, and Apple are successful, okay?
Apple has Steve Jobs. Google controls the world's search. Amazon controls buying things, right?
What does Facebook do? It doesn't do anything, right? So how can I explain why Mark Zuckerberg
is so successful? Well, there's actually an explanation. This, guys, okay? It's all part of a,
it's possible, okay? I'm not saying it is true, but it's all part of the grand conspiracy to
create an AI civilian state, which is what Pax UDK is. This guy, okay? They look exactly the same.
They are the same. They look like clones of each other. No personality, no ideas of their own.
They're just robots. How did he become so successful, right? And AI, guess what, guys,
makes no money, but at the same time, they get trillions of dollars from investors to build
data centers, okay? And these data centers allow you to make really nice pictures and videos online
that do nothing, okay? Why is all this money being spent except one day to
create a surveillance state, okay? That's what makes sense. The idea that these things exist
so that you can play on the computer makes no sense, but these things exist in order to one day
have complete control over what you do, what you think, and how you behave. That makes sense now,
okay? Pax UDK. All right, Elon Musk, okay? I understand millions of people worship this guy.
I don't know how this guy makes money, okay? If you look at Tesla and Facebook, and you can
even say, listen, there are these two companies, Facebook and Tesla, would you invest in them?
No! Facebook, there's no business model here. I don't understand why people need social media.
I don't understand how Mark Zuckerberg, how he's going to make money in the future.
Elon Musk, he gets all this money from government subsidies. Tesla doesn't make any money, man,
and the guy's a moron, okay? But Neuralink, okay? Why is he proposing Neuralink? It's part of
transhumanism, right? All right, so Jacob Frank, guys, all right? Everything goes back to Jacob
Frank. What does Jacob Frank believe? He believes that what matters is, at the end of the world,
is the spirit becomes flesh, you understand? The spirit becomes flesh. What matters is not
the mind. What matters is matter. Second thing he says is, listen, your laws tell me to fast,
to suffer. I don't want that crap. I want to enjoy my life, okay? And the third thing is,
this world cannot have been created by God. It was created by Satan, because why would God allow us
to die? Therefore, we must defy Satan by living forever, okay? Now, if we understand Frank, we
understand the idea of transhumanism, okay? This is a guy with his own bionic eye that records
things. This is a guy with his own arm. This is a new trend in the future. What is transhumanism?
The capacity to live forever, okay? All right, so this is the future that we're looking at.
If you're a rich person, if you're a powerful person, this is what you will experience. You
will experience longevity, health, and beauty, okay? You will have organ transplants that keep
you young. You will have stem cell therapy to repair any cancer, any diseases. You have gene
therapy. You have blood transfusion. You have replacement bodies, okay? You will be 20 years
old forever. You have great sex. You'll live forever, okay? This is if you are a billionaire.
Everyone else? Uh-oh. Uh-oh. Well, first of all, you become a cyborg, where you are now specialized
for a certain function, okay? They're going to put microchips in your body so you can become a
better accountant, okay? They'll turn your arms into cyborg, bionic arms, so you can be better
at construction work. Who knows, okay? Microchips inside of you, the mark of the beast.
What do these microchips do? They are digital ID and digital currency, and guess what, guys?
If you're not happy, they'll know about it, and they'll give you drugs to make you happy.
You think this won't happen? They've already had everything in place, okay?
Addictive drugs to control mood. Oh, and like, if you're lonely, don't worry, man. That's what AI's
for. You have an AI girlfriend and boyfriend, and you know what? Most people would prefer an AI
boyfriend and girlfriend, okay? Okay, and then it'll be an individual matrix where you live in
your own world. It's a real world of warcraft, but in the real world, okay? Where everyone
who's your friend, your entire family, it's all just AI generated, okay? You live in a perfect world.
Okay, guys. Now, let's look at how PACS should take care of profits. How they control the world. Well,
AI surveillance systems and AI data centers. ISRI will become the leader in that, okay? Because
for AI data centers to be effective, they need to be safe. Everywhere else, there's going to be wars,
right? Not in Israel, because ISRI has nuclear weapons. So all the major technology companies
will be based in Israel in the future. Weaponry, security, private militias to protect you if you're
at war. Bioweapons and biowarfare, psychological and information warfare. Israel's really good at
that. Intelligence, espionage, and sabotage. Mossad is the world's best intelligence agency.
Financing, okay? So if you're going to go to war, you'll be financed by the Israelis. Trade access,
transhumanism for the global leader, okay? This is how, in the future, they will control the world.
Does that make sense?
All right, but we don't know how much of the world will last because of something called the
magnetic pole excursion, and this will usher in something called the mini ice age, okay? So maybe
God is unhappy with PACS Judaica. Maybe we know no one can defeat PACS Judaica except God himself,
and maybe God will intervene, but not in the way that it says in the Bible, okay? We don't know.
This is all speculation. Believe whatever you want, okay? So any questions?
Does this make sense to you guys? PACS Judaica, welcome to the future.
Okay, all right. Let me go over some substack. So I want to thank the founding members
of my substack because they're extremely generous, and they've left some questions
and comments, and so I will answer them now, okay? So could you help me, Amber, by reading the
questions? So I can rest a bit. Okay. Dear Professor Jiang, I'm an avid viewer of all your lectures on
YouTube and your content on substack, and I want to say a huge thank you for the incredibly
important content you are sharing with humanity. I'm a 27-year-old Jew living in Israel. I oppose
any Zionist idea and any nation state whatsoever, including Israel and including Palestine. I would
like to know whether you think it is advisable for the younger generation of Jews, both those
living in Israel and those who do not, to live in Israel. On the one hand, anti-Semitism is likely
to increase the diaspora, which will lead many Jews to think that Israel is the safest place for
us, and the chain of events that are likely to unfold will cause Jews to believe that the Messiah
is just around the corner. On the other hand, we are heading towards living here in a technocratic
ghetto of surveillance, digital ID systems, and so on. I'm sure that many sane Jews who simply
want to live in peace regardless of religion or race follow your wonderful work and would like
to know what you think is the right course of action for us. I don't know whether this question
is a priority for you to address in a video, and it's completely understandable if you choose not
to share it, but even a written response from you would be more than enough. Thank you very much.
Okay, so thank you, Daniel, for your comment. Listen, I think... Patriarchy is not about the
Jews. It's about these evil people who want to control the world, and they want to use
Jews and Israel as a tool to do so, and a lot of Jews recognize this fact. A lot of Jews recognize
traditionally they've been used by empires in the past, and this is a great question,
and I'll say certain things. The first thing is that I believe that the people who will be most
resistant to Patriarchy, the people who stand up and fight Patriarchy, will actually be Jews
themselves. Jews have a great tradition of being on the front lines of resistance for justice,
for humanity, for all that is good in the world, so I believe that Jews will play a very important
part in the resistance against Pax Judaica. The second thing that I will say is that
things look dark, but what we've learned this semester are three things, okay? The first is
that evil must triumph, so that good may rise. There must be total darkness for the light to
shine, and all hope must end so that we can become hope ourselves, okay? So please remember that
there's a bright spark in us. When all hope seems lost, that spark will remind you of who you are,
and it will lead you into the light, okay? So I don't have specific instructions or ideas
on how to counter Pax Judaica, but I think that being aware of Pax Judaica and being aware that
we individually have the capacity to resist is fundamental to what is to come, okay? So thanks
to Daniel for the question. Okay, all right, this is from Kevin Zhou. Can you read, Amber?
Okay, I first want to thank whatever gave you the courage to continue past tribulations,
maybe Mrs. Jiang, and continuing to teach. Your will and dedication to learning and teaching is
monumental compared to the attention spans of newer generations. I think I speak for most of us
who watch, but you have definitely made a historical impact on us. It seems transnational
capitalism, Frankism, has weaved its web for hundreds of years, turning into the monster it
is today. What are humanity's possible counters? Do you think it is religion? Will we ever make
a cyclic turn away from capitalism? How long would it take to undo this movement? Thank you,
NeverSpot. Okay, so you're absolutely right, okay? So again, thank you for this question, okay?
The Frankists have spent centuries preparing for today, and that's why they win, because they're
willing to think long-term, they're willing to work together, they're willing to make necessary
sacrifices to achieve heaven and earth in their eyes, okay? And so we need to, if you want to
defeat them, you need to become like that, okay? You need to think long-term, you need to like,
understand, you need to make sacrifices, okay? It's something that you cannot defeat in one day,
or ten years, or a hundred years. If you have to like, believe in yourself, you have to believe
in humanity, you have to respond by working hard, or making sacrifices, okay? By learning,
all right? So that's the only way forward. Also, what we also know is that when empires come into
being, that's when they end, okay? So the moment Pax Judaica comes into being, it has to end,
because Pax Judaica becomes arrogant, it becomes obvious, it becomes narrow-minded, it becomes
insular, okay? And so Pax Judaica will fall. We don't know how long Pax Judaica will last.
It may not even last that long, okay? Maybe ten years, twenty years, who knows,
okay? But it's a very unstable system. So what we need to do is look ahead and think about what
humanity looks like after Pax Judaica. Also, I hate to say this, but it looks like the world is
about to end. Wars everywhere, destruction everywhere, maybe nine percent of humanity
gets wiped out, okay? So we need to face this back and prepare for what the future looks like
after the great flood that is coming, okay? And we have to use our imagination. And later on,
as I continue my teaching, I will propose different scenarios, different solutions, okay?
But this is a long-term project. If I can spend a lot of time conceptualizing
how to conquer the world, we have to imagine how we can rebuild the world together.
All right, this is from Waw Enkidu.
You speak a lot about the monad and Gnostic teachings. Do you see this as a possible
emerging major religion? Can it be? It seems like this massive expansion, like the Bronze Age,
Muslim conquest, and implosions like the Bronze Age collapse and the French Revolution that
repeat throughout history are almost the way civilization matures for those who participate.
The same way a person grows from facing the overcoming trauma,
are societies who participate in a collapse and come out the other side better off for it?
Lastly, who are your favorite English language poets apart from Milton?
Okay, I'll answer the last question first. I was an English major at Yale, okay? So I know
about English poetry. Milton is definitely my favorite poet. Then you have John Keats.
Willem Shakespeare is also really good, okay?
Societies rise and fall so that there can be creativity in the world, okay? It sucks if a
society lasts for a long, long time. We know because we're in China, okay? Societies are
meant to rise and fall so that new societies may rise and fall as well. Parents must die so that
children can be independent, okay? So I understand death, destruction, war, these are terrible
concepts, but they're all part and parcel of the human experience. We should stop seeing them as
negative things and just as things that happen to us, and we should respond accordingly, okay?
So if you think about the Bronze Age collapse, yes, it was a terrible event, but it led to
the founding of Israel. It led to the Greeks. It led to the rise of Persia, and these three
different civilizations were paired to tremendous creativity in the human experience, and it seems
as though we've come to the end of a cycle, okay? So even though there's destruction, destruction
will mean rebirth. Even though there is stagnation, stagnation will lead to creativity. It's all part
of a cycle, okay? The human experience is one that is extremely dynamic, extremely resilient.
So even though there's death, death always leads to life, okay?
All right, this is from Demi. Professor, you have a remarkable way of synthesizing the best
parts of spiritual practice while mitigating the worst parts, dogma, lack of critical thought.
Was there a moment in life where you had your spiritual
epiphany? I imagine Dante's Inferno helped. Okay, so I think that my superpower has always been
my capacity for self-reflection. Ever since I was young, I've been able to stare in the mirror
and look at who I am and say, this is who I am, this is what I like about myself, this is what I
don't like about myself. So I'm constantly in a process of self-reflection and self-rejuvenation
and self-invention, okay? I've done that all my life, okay? So I was a poor immigrant in Toronto.
I was bullied a lot when I was young. I didn't like that, so I worked hard, got into Yale,
and then after I got out of Yale, I thought that I was succeeding in this world. I didn't succeed,
so I looked at myself in the mirror and I recognized that there were limitations to my
Yale education. I changed that, okay? I started to reinvent myself. I did a lot of things that
were experimental, but which I am forever thankful for. For example, I did stand-up comedy for a time.
I did skydiving. I did parkour. So I am constantly in the process of self-exploration,
self-reflection, and self-reinvention, which is what leads to creativity, okay? So I would say
there's a particular moment when my life changed. I would say that, oh, I've always been like that,
okay? Five years from now, I'll probably be a different person from who I am today.
I'm not content with just being who I am. I'm constantly looking to improve myself,
and that means constantly engaging in a process of self-reflection, but that means also engaging
in a process of self-doubt and sometimes even self-hatred, okay? So even though, you know,
online, I'm famous, and people appreciate my teaching, I don't really care about these things,
okay? For me, what's important is, am I improving? Am I being creative? Am I contributing to the
progress of humanity? These are the questions that animate me, okay? And I love Dante, by the way.
And next semester, I'm teaching a great book, and we'll spend a lot of time on Dante, okay?
All right, give our reading. Hi, professor. I've always loved history, and it's been a blessing
finding your teachings. I wish I had a class like this in school. Growing up with a Zionist
mother, from that perspective, I thought what she spoke of would never really happen. I try to help
combat Zionism and those oppressed, but it feels hopeless. Do you think there is any possibility
to change or stop what is currently happening, or has Zionism embedded into many aspects of society?
Okay, Zionism is one now, because the people who believe in Zionism are the ones who are willing
most sacrifices, the ones who are the most energetic, who are willing to work together
to achieve this vision. So an example is, if you look at all these wealthy societies in the world,
there's only one wealthy society that has a fertility rate above replacement level,
and that's Israel, okay? It's above two, possibly three. Every other nation is like one or 1.5,
okay? So it shows us that regardless of how we feel about Israel and Zionism, people in Israel
love being Israeli, and they want a better future for the nation, and they believe in a better
future for the nation. Young people making the sacrifice necessary to have a family
shows you the health, fertility, and energy of a nation, okay? But at the same time,
and I keep on saying this, when Zionism has become an empire, when it becomes Pax Judica,
that's when it will fall very quickly. And I also believe that a lot of Jews,
a lot of Israelis don't want an empire, they just want to live normal lives. And the fact that they
come to the center of the world, the fact that they're causing all this war, chaos, conflict
around the world to benefit from, a lot of them are going to rebel, okay? So I can imagine that
once Pax Judica comes into being, you're going to have a massive civil war throughout Israel,
right? Okay, Dan? What is your favorite food, and what can we expect or not,
between semesters and over the break time? Thank you for all the great lectures this semester.
Okay, my favorite food is Japanese. I love sashimi, but I also just love food in general. I'm
Cantonese, so I just love eating in general. They say that Cantonese people live to eat,
okay? And that's certainly true for me. Okay, so after this class, I go on a two-week break,
and then I come back to teach two classes, game theory and geopolitics. So what we'll be doing is
looking at current events and using game theory to understand how and why they're happening, okay?
So we'll be looking at things like Venezuela, Iran, Israel, okay? So that'll be a fun class.
I'll also be teaching a great book. So we'll be looking at Dante, Homer, Plato, Shakespeare,
Milton. Okay, so two weeks. There'll be a two-week break, but in general, we start two new classes,
and it'll be fun, it'll be interesting. I hope that you enjoy them, okay? All right, this is from Oz.
It's been a pleasure to read and listen to your work. The education and contextual framing is
super interesting. I am especially inspired by the original works you quoted, you quote, which
illustrates how well-read you are. I'm sure you have already heard this, so I'm hoping that writing
a book is already on your radar. Half of the works is done, and you have a proven audience.
Start with putting all your transcripts and essays into AI with some guidance and ask it to create
a book. Then you can iterate. All you will need beyond that is perfecting citations and ensuring
there are no errors, but that won't change the messages you have brought to life. Okay, so thanks,
Oz, for the encouragement. I am planning to write a book, okay? Now, I've written many books in the
past before I published two books, so I know the book writing process of an agent, so it will be
hard for me to publish a book, and as Oz said, I do have an audience. I do have a global audience,
tens of thousands who would love to read the book, but I want to create the best book possible,
so that requires meditation, that requires discussion, that requires experimentation,
so I understand the book writing process, and the way I write books is different from how others
write books, okay? I have lots of writer friends. They're extremely successful. I can't do what they
do. I mean, they spend like 10 hours a day writing books. I am much more imaginative. I'm much more
intuitive. I like to take long walks in the park and just play around with ideas, okay? So I will
write a book. I am very efficient. When I set a goal, I go and do it, but I want to write the best
book possible for everyone. I see myself first and foremost as a writer. Most people see me as a
teacher, but I'm first and foremost a writer, and so I want to take tremendous pride in whatever I
produce. I want this book, no matter what I write, to stand the test of time. I want people to read
it 100 years from now, okay? I love reading books. I love books. Books to me are just as alive as
people. When I read books, what makes me distinct as a reader is when I read books, I'm able to
perceive or go into the soul of the person, okay? That's why I know Jacob Frank so much.
When I read Jacob Frank, I understand how he thinks, okay? I'm not judging him, okay? He's
an evil guy, but I'm not judging him, okay? But I know how he thinks. I know how he feels. I know
what he's doing, what he's doing, and that's what allows me tremendous insight into history,
and that's why I'm able to create really interesting content for everyone. So I love reading. I love
writing. If I'm going to produce a book, if I'm going to write a book, I want it to stand the test
of time. I want people to read it and be forever changed by it, okay? All right, so that is it.
Thank you so much, guys. Next semester, we start Game Theory and Geopolitics.
Okay.
you
you
you
you
