Okay, so today we are going to discuss civilization versus the steps, okay?
Civilization
Versus the steps
The steps are the grasslands and you people often refer to them as barbarians, okay?
so in China we refer these people as like yamanyan barbarians and
in school
You're taught that there are major differences between civilization and barbarians, right?
so
The first major
Difference is that in civilization you are allowed
intellectual
freedom
Because only by reading books only by going to school only by
learning
How to think can you be free to think okay?
And in a step we think of them as emotional slaves
They are unpredictable. They are violent
Okay
Second thing is that we think of civilization as
Open and curious
We
Love knowledge we seek to gain more knowledge therefore
We are innovative, okay
Whereas the steps people they are
Static
Okay, because they are insular they're close-minded
And
Okay, and the last thing is
That we think civilization
leads to wealth and prosperity
Only can you be
Only if you are civilized can you be truly be happy okay and wealthy
We think that the steps people are
poor and therefore
unhappy
Hey, that is the general understanding of the difference between civilization and the barbarians, okay?
the problem is
that
this creates a
misunderstanding and
We can't really explain. Why is it that throughout human history?
The steps people have been the greatest conquerors
Okay, so the classic example is Genghis Khan. How is it that Genghis Khan was able to not only conquer?
China okay, which is one consider one of the greatest civilizations in the world, but also
Baghdad
another great civilization
Okay, but what's interesting is that throughout human history this has been a consistent consistent pattern
Where the barbarians?
Conquered the civilized people
Okay, so this is a problem. How is it that how is it that if in civilization? They're so free. They're so smart
They're so open. They're so curious innovative and so prosperous. Why is it that they keep on losing out the steps people and
the answer is because your traditional understanding is
Is completely wrong, okay, and I will show you that it's the complete actually the opposite
It is the steps people who are open curious and innovative and it is the slicing people who are close-minded
Or static and who are unhappy. Okay, so that's my argument to you
Today, all right, so let's go over
some of my
Points before I show you the PPT, okay. All right, so let's discuss how civilization starts
So last class we understand that there's a major river and on top of this major river. You have a city develop, okay
remember that
We come together for religious purposes. We have settlements in order to celebrate nature subway God
celebrate our religion or belief system and
Over time what happens is that
This system becomes unequal it becomes hierarchical and
Therefore we leave but there are some places
that are strategic for trade purposes and
Therefore people don't want to leave because you can generate a lot of wealth and prosperity in these places and so they become
Major cities, okay, so the first city in world civilization is Europe, okay, and
Over time they become more prosperous they build canals
They learn farming they develop their own mythology
Okay, and then what happens is that as the population grows and grows they go off and colonize other places
along the trade route, okay, maybe upstream and then downstream as well and
Then what happens is that this city's these city states
are now in competition with each other and
They have a system of competition call
Open
cooperative
Competition, okay
This is a very important concept
Because this concept is what gives us innovation
So you have these three things in place open cooperation competition. You'll be very innovative
Open just means that you want to learn you want to grow you want to learn from others
Cooperation means that you are in contact with others so you that you are learning the best practices from other people
Competition means that you'll be better than they are. Okay, so in this system of city states
You have massive innovation and
We see this throughout human history. Okay, so think of China. When was China the most innovative it was during the
Tune chill right the spring autumn period. That's where we're getting Confucius from
Okay, all the great ideas came from this period of the
Tune chill, okay. This is also true for
Mesopotamia is also true for Egypt as well. Okay, and eventually what happens is that these city states are
all merged into an empire because during this process of
innovation one
City will be more innovative than the others and therefore they will conquer the others
What's interesting often is that it is a city that is most
Disadvantaged that conquers the other cities because you're forced to be more innovative
So in China the classic example is the Qing right the Qing was in the mountains they had more population
They were poorer they're more isolated and therefore that they have more innovative than the Zhao the Chu the Wei
Dynasties, okay, and this is true also
In throughout human history and so now you have an empire
And at first this empire is extremely innovative
Why for three reasons, okay, the first thing is that now has scale
Okay, it has size
Therefore is able to draw on more resources
Second is the idea of
standardization
So that's a civilization just means that now using the same monetary system. You're using the same laws
You're using the same
Communications network, okay, then allows for better use of resources. The last is the idea of centralization
Meaning that you have
One place controlling all activities elsewhere
And that allows you to build canals allows you to build temples
That allows you to undertake massive public works projects. Okay, so in the beginning the Empire there's massive
Consolidation of innovation which leads to tremendous innovation
Okay, but over time what happens is the Empire becomes the opposite of an open
Cooperative competition system why well first of all it comes it comes insular
Okay, then it becomes secretive
And then it becomes a monopoly
That's what a bureaucracy is
Hey you guys understand, okay
All right. So when an empire reaches a certain point of growth, it becomes a bureaucracy and therefore it kills all innovation
So this idea that civilization leads to innovation is wrong
Okay, civilization leads ultimately to corruption
All right
Now what's interesting is that even though this is a general rule of human development
It's not always true. There are exceptions
Okay
So for example one civilization that we know that did not work out like this is something called the in this valley civilization
Which is modern-day Pakistan
And we'll discuss this later on but they were actually even though they had a city-state system
They were actually peaceful
Patriotic and artistic
Okay, they didn't go to war with each other. They didn't create a hierarchy
They didn't create a bureaucracy and we'll discuss later on why this is the case
But there's something that you need to understand even though there are patterns to human history
There are always exceptions to the rule. Okay. All right
so
Over time the Empire breaks down. Okay. Why because you have a hierarchy in place
Okay, a hierarchy
a bureaucracy
the people are at the bottom and
If you are a person in Empire your life sucks
Okay, it really sucks because you're essentially a slave. Why well first of all the Empire goes to war a lot in order to protect
The Empire goes to war a lot in order to protect its advantages
Okay, so they can at any time just take it a war and you get killed. Okay
Second is the problem of debt. It's very easy if
you
Are a peasant to fall in debt you owe rent to a landlord then you have to sell your children
Okay, so that really sucks
And the last problem is immobility which just means that you're stuck where you are
Okay, so the people in the Empire their lives suck, but they're stuck where they are because of war debt and immobility
And as we discussed last class
The bureaucracy will develop a mythology in order to just justify
Why they are like this
But the very top it's it's actually even more problematic because what happens is at the top you eventually have a problem of
elite
over
production
Okay, elite overpricing just means that there are only a few
Limited spots for the elite and the elite have too many children and therefore they fight
Okay, they break up into different factions
and each faction
competes against each other for the right to be the elite and
because of this
conflict at the very top
You usually have three results. Okay, the first result is revolution where one elite tells the people to overfill everyone else
Okay. So remember what's really important to understand is the people do not
Create the revolution
The people themselves not rebel. It's always one faction of the elite help
Working with the people to overfill the other factions. Okay, that's what a revolution is
Second possible is civil war. Okay, where the factions
Have different armies and they fight and the third
Possibility is just they go to war with the Empire. Okay, but this is a common pattern in
History now, what's really interesting is that as the Empire falls?
The pastoral people come and take over the Empire. Okay, the step people or the
Pastoralist pastoralist means that they don't farm for living. They raise
Sheep goats and cows for living. Okay, they come and they take over the Empire
Why is this the case?
Why is this the case?
Because these people are the best fighters in the world
They have horses they can they have they're archers. Okay, so they're the best fighters in the world
So what often happens is one faction invites them
to be mercenaries
In the struggle and eventually they recognize, you know what?
We don't have to fight for the prince. We just take it over take over ourselves
Another thing that happens is the faction that invites the mercenaries don't have enough money to pay them off
So mercenaries are just like screw this we'll just take over the Empire ourselves. Okay?
And what's important to understand is that throughout all this the pastoralists are always in contact with the Empire through three things
Okay through trade
Through pillaging so the pastoralists come and steal from the people and through being mercenaries
So this is a pattern
Throughout human history
So another question we have to ask is
Why are the pastoralists?
so different
from people of civilization and empire
And the reason is geography
What I will show you is that people are pastoralists grow up in a different environment
Than the people of civilization empire and therefore they have developed a different economy
As well as mythology as well as culture, okay, all right
All right, let's continue
But we're clear so far, right? Okay. So um in the beginning we had agriculture
Why did we have agriculture? Because as we discussed before
People came together for religious purposes. They built temples and now you have to maintain the temples
Therefore you build forms around the temple and develop agriculture
Okay
But because of climate change
And over a population people are always constantly forced to move to new places
So agriculture was first up in the middle east and then it went over to europe
And it went over to
um
Other places as well. Okay, so it's spread around the world
So when they went to europe, they could actually maintain their agricultural practices
because the climate
and the geography and the terrain of europe was conducive to agriculture and as a result europe maintained the
cultural practices
Of the people of the middle east, okay, and so they had egalitarian
Artistic
And peaceful civilizations
Okay
So why they were peaceful is that first of all women were in control
Okay, remember it's the most natural thing to have women
Be part of the political class. Okay, so women were in charge
So if there was any conflict the women would just discuss it amongst themselves and come to a harmonious conclusion
Okay, they wouldn't have to fight
Second thing is there was no money
Because there was no property
Okay, the agriculture is something that you work on together and you share you don't there's no such concept as
private property
Okay, so in other words no war
no conflict
So these are the three distinct characteristics of early human society in an agricultural society
Women are usually in command. There's no sense of private property. Everyone shares everything together and there's no conflict in a war
people just discuss things and trade
in order to
reach a
harmonious conclusion, okay
so
One of its changes is that the city grows and grows and then you have a have a large city
And so you need a bureaucracy. Okay, but in europe what's really important to understand about europe is that unlike china
And egypt and also botania. It does not have a large river
And therefore you cannot grow a big city in europe
Okay, so that allows them to maintain a pretty
Good life
Okay, so when they go to europe they're able to maintain the same cultural practices, but then they go to the steps, okay?
And the problem with steps is you cannot grow
Food because it's all grassland
Okay, you cannot farm so now you have to change your
cultural practice
So what was happening is that these people in the steps they started to trade with people with agriculture
Okay, also you have people in the agriculture who moved to the steps and they brought with them
cows
and sheep
And this changed everything because you as a
Person you can't eat grass, but cows and sheep can
So now what you can do is you can base your entire economy
around
Animals as opposed to agriculture, okay
But there's certain problems
with
Cows and sheep, okay
The first problem is that they're expensive. So now you have a concept of private property
money
And this concept didn't really exist before
Okay
And so if I see someone with a cow, I don't have a cow. What do I do? I want to go steal it
Right, so this leads to conflict now war and conflict
And because you have private property
and
War and conflict you can't have a system run by woman unit system run by man. This creates a patriarchy, okay
So this is a very important principle in human history these three things go together, okay patriarchy
money and war okay, these three things always go together patriarchy money and
war
okay
so
This is changing the economy of the steps and it's like in its
And it's becoming different from agricultural societies. Okay
And so now the innovations in in order to deal with a new economy
Okay, so let's go over some of their major innovations
The first major innovation that's very important is the idea of lactose
tolerance
You may not know this but most humans cannot drink milk naturally
Okay, so you need to develop the enzymes to drink milk naturally
And so they were able to do that because they were forced to rely on cows and sheep for their food
They have to learn how to drink milk
But when they learn how to drink milk when they learn how to eat when they start eating meat, guess what?
They became stronger and taller. Okay, so for most of you in history the people the steps were the tallest people
In the world they were the strongest
In the world, okay, that's the first major innovation that changed their history
the second major innovation is
horse riding why
because the steps are a huge area
And it's flat so you can so you need to move around it a lot
Also remember cows and sheep eat grass
So when they eat this in this pasture and they finish all their grass they have to move somewhere else. Okay
So the only way to protect your cows and sheep from other people is to be mobile
And so they learn how to domesticate horses
Okay, which is a major innovation and took a long time and you can imagine
How hard that is to do because if horses see you what do they do? They run away
So how do you train a horse to not run away and let the horse ride you well it takes a lot
And a lot of effort but because they had to do it they managed to do it. Okay
And so with the horse riding now you can have another invention which is the wheel and the wagon
Wheel and wagon
Now you can put all your stuff in a wagon and move from camp to camp
Okay, you can cover the entirety
Of the steps
Okay
Does that make sense, okay and because of these three major innovations
You now have a different culture. Okay, so let's go over
What makes their culture distinctive from other places? Okay. The first is the idea of patriarchy
Where
um
men are control
And the reason why they control is because in the steps war is a constant thing. Okay
So the culture becomes very masculine very aggressive. It rewards aggression. It rewards courage. Okay
Um, the other thing is that we have a patriarchy in place
You can have more children
Okay when women are in charge women tend to practice birth control because they want to make sure that every child
Is healthy and every child lives to adulthood, okay, they want to avoid the risk of dying childbirth
They want they want to avoid the risk of their of their child dying young
Okay, but with men are in charge they basically get women to have as many kids as possible
Okay, also remember in this world there's a lot of conflict. So you need as many
Uh boys to fight as possible
Okay, but then you have a problem then you have a lot of children
Men
What is what what you have a form of inheritance like when you die your cows go to who
Right. Now, let's assume you have 100 cows. You have like 10 boys
if you give
If you are
Fearing you give
10 cows to one boy will very quickly your family's going to be poor
And because in the steps the weather is bad your cows are very likely to die
Well, then your entire family could be extinct in two or three generations
So they invented a new concept called primogeniture
Primogeniture primogeniture just means that the eldest boy inherits
everything
That ensures that
The family can stay can stay wealthy, okay
All right
Now but now your problem is wait a minute if the eldest boy inherits everything what do the other boys do?
Well, they have to go and steal other cows. Okay, and to do that they form secret societies
Okay
secret societies are just like
Basically these gangs okay these gangs of young men who get together to do what well they go steal cows and sheep
And what else do they do? They steal woman
right because
Right. I mean like what's the most most valuable commodity in the steps? Well
Cows and women so that's what you steal
okay, so
This creates a culture of war and conflict constantly
All right, and the third innovation is something called the patron-client relationship
And this is actually how or patronage and this is what
Allows for the construction of society in a step so remember in a civilization you have bureaucracy
You have centralization
But in a step you can't have that because you can't have that many people so you have a patron-client relationship
And all that means is that?
It's like a mafia, right? I'm the big brother. You're the little brother
So maybe I have a hundred cows and you need cows so I lend you 10 cows
But now you're you are loyal to me. Okay. I'm the big brother. You're the little brother
And this creates the idea of tribes
Okay, does that make sense what's really important here is that in civilization
Bureaucracy maintains control over people over debt until you become a slave
But in the steps, there's no concept of slavery
Okay, you're still a free independent person, but you just
Pay you're just loyal to your big brother. So your big brother needs you to do something you go do it for him
Okay, so there's still a level of freedom in the steps that you don't have in civilization. And that's why I said that's just good fighters
Okay
Alright, so these three things are
major
innovations
But now that you have these innovations
you need a
new mythology
to justify or explain
these innovations, okay, and so what they had was
They went from the mother goddess
Okay, so mother goddess again is the religion of agricultural people the sky god
And the mother goddess wants you to be
Harmonious, okay to be kind and compassionate
What does the sky god want you to do the sky god wants you to conquer
And exploit, okay
It wants you to destroy
It wants you to kill it wants you to conquer to steal
Okay
and
Also in this religion
Horses and cows are very important
But as we discussed last class here grain
And nature are very important, okay
So you see how this works, right?
Now what's important to understand is that
Because
This system does not allow for the creation
Of a bureaucracy the steps
always practice open
Cooperative
Competition
and it's a system
That forces you to be aggressive it forces you to be independent, okay, and it forces you
to work hard
And that's why people the steps are the greatest warriors in human history
And that's why when the steps people encounter the empire civilization
They usually are able to conquer the empire. Okay, does that make sense? Okay, so the steps are like a training ground
for
fighters
And over time the fighters have become more and more fierce
And what's ironic is those fighters who are the most fierce can stay in the steps those fighters who are
Force other steps they go conquer the empire
Okay
All right, it's a constant pattern in
Human history
All right, is that clear? All right, any questions guys before I do the ppt?
Great
Okay
Okay guys
Yes, so sorry, can you speak the mic please so earlier you said that um
Uh these these people they inherit their
To their oldest son, right? So so my question is like is it like necessary for or
Um
so they must inherit their inheritance to the oldest son or is it like they have some kind of a system to
Determine which which son can have the best of their
Inheritance, okay. Yeah, so their general principle is always the eldest son
Okay, that's to avoid conflict because if you open up to say, okay. Well, whoever is most brave whoever is most
noble whoever who is most wise
That means that they'll just fight each other. Okay, this is what happened after the death of gangus khan
Right. So the general rule is you always give it to the eldest son
What if the eldest son has been manipulated by his uh siblings it doesn't matter it does not matter okay, all right
All right. So legacy of the steps. All right. So as I discussed what's happening is that
europe
At first was just hunter-gatherer, okay, and they were spread out
They did paintings in caves. They had a pretty easy life. Okay, not an easy life
But it was a free life and over time what happened is that agriculture would develop in the middle east and it would spread
To europe, okay, and you can see the genetic change
Where the blue is hunter-gatherer and the orange is farmers. Okay, but then what happened?
Um in about 2500 bce is the steps people who we call the yamnaya actually so different different names
They're porto indo europeans
The yamnaya you can refer to them as any okay steps yamnaya
Uh porto indo european. It doesn't really matter but they go
to europe as well and they start mixing
with
the um
Farmers what's really important for our purpose to understand is this when the farmers went to europe
They went as families husband wife children
And so they integrate into europe pretty peacefully, okay
but
When the pastoralists the yamnaya went to europe, they went mostly as young men
Therefore that they kill the local man in order to marry their wives
Okay, and so
basically
um from dna research we know that
It was a genocide. Okay, the
european farming men were eliminated by the pastoralists
Okay
And we also remember that the pastoralists they were stronger. Okay, they were taller
Um and they're more aggressive
Okay
All right
Yeah, so this is another map that shows the same thing what you need to understand is this
This movement is global. Okay, so the farmers went to europe, but they also went
To india and iran, okay, they basically went wherever they could go
Same thing with the yamnaya. Okay, so this this is the yamnaya people they went to europe
But they also look at this they also went to iran and india and we know because we study the languages
uh persian, okay
Hindi and european languages
They're basically the same languages
So we know there had to be one common mother language to them
Okay, so there's another map showing you the yamnaya again, um, they went to europe, but they also went to
in india, okay as well as
iran
and by mixing with local
Uh customs and religion they created new religions that had tremendous impact on civilization
so in um
Iran they will give birth to zoroastrianism, which we'll discuss later on okay, and these are their vestas
Which is the bible of of zoroastrianism
and uh india
They of course gave birth to hinduism
And these are the vidas which is the bible of hinduism. We'll discuss this later on in the semester
But I want you to be aware of this, okay
So again, we know that this happened at first because of linguistic studies
When we look at different languages, we discover there are common words to them. So look let's look at father
Okay, when latin is patar, greek, patris, persian, padar, hindi, pita
Pretty similar, okay similar to mother, mother, matar, mitara, madar, mat
So we so from different linguistic studies
We know they have to be a common language to all of them and that's why we hypothesize about the proto-indo-europeans
Um, this is even more stark example where the proto-indo-european
Two is dwa, okay, and you can see how it spreads to other languages
in the proto-indo-european family so that you go from
Uh dwa to dwa to tu in english, okay, so all these languages are interrelated
That's why if you speak one like english, it's pretty easy for you to learn the other languages as well
Whereas if you speak chinese, it doesn't really help you when you go learn
other languages, okay
All right. Now linguists have done studies of words that are distinct
To proto-indo-european and these are the words that they discover, okay
bo, cow, ox, ram, eel, dog, grain, cauldron, wrestling, wealth, households, families
Clans, these words are unique to their culture and therefore we're able to group these words together
And discover there are four characteristics. Okay, first of them lots of words for wheel. They have words for
uh
Dairy, they don't have farming terms and they have words for horse. Okay, that's why we're able to figure out that these are
nomadic pastulas
Therefore they must be from the steps
Okay
And then through archaeology and dna studies we're able to have a better understanding of who they are
Okay, and as I said they have to be pastulas, okay because of the way they use words
Um
So let's talk about old europe before the yamai come and conquer them, okay
So this is Maria Gumbutas who is an american luthianian anthropologist
and
she's the first
To hypothesize that old europe must have been conquered by these people because she did a lot of archaeology archaeology and discovered that their culture
was primarily
Peaceful it honored women and it espoused egalitarianism. Okay, this is exactly what I said previously
And the yamai people were completely different. They were a patriarchy who had private property and which was very aggressive. Okay
Okay
Um, she wrote many books, um the language of the goddess and she like her work is amazing
Okay, so if you have a chance, please do study her work
And um, so let's write let's read what she wrote. Okay
So this is a mother god civilization something that we thought we'd discuss a lot in this class
The goddess in our manifestations was a symbol of the union of all life in nature
Her power was in water and stone in tomb in cave in animals and birds snakes and fish hills trees and flowers
Hence the holistic and mythopoic perception of all the sacredness and mystery of all there is on earth
Okay
So again, this is a religion that practices balance and harmony because eving is sacred
Therefore you cannot destroy life without first getting permission from the mother goddess. Okay
This culture took deep delight in the natural wonders of this world
It's people do not produce lethal weapons or build forts and accessible places as your successors did even when they were acquainted with metallurgy
Instead they built magnificent tombs shrines and temples comfortable house in moderately sized villages and created superb pottery and sculptures
This was a long-lasting period of remarkable creativity and stability and age free of strife. Their culture was a culture of art
Okay, so this is a very nice place. They don't fight
They're egalitarian. They practice art
Okay, and what's really important for us to understand is they had writing systems. They had they had technology
They just chose not to use it for war because it was against their religion
Um
So they they also had writing systems and they had symbols
Okay, and this is something that maria gumbotas has done a lot of research in okay. I won't go into their writing system
Um, so when the united came they basically completely
Invert the culture
so for example
The europeans the old europeans believed that the snake was symbol of light energy and regeneration most benevolent
Naive evil creature. It was a yama who introduced the idea that the snake is a devil
Okay, all right, and that's where we get the bite and that's where we get the concept in the bible from
um black to them is a
Good color white is a bad color white because black symbolize life
White symbolizes death, right black did not mean death or the underworld
It was the color of fertility the color of damp caves and rich soil of the womb of the goddess where life begins
What on their hand was the color of death of bones? Okay. And again when the united come they will invert this
Um, what's really important to understand is in this society women are in control their power and agency
and why well
It turns out that um this book sex and dawn sex at dawn, okay
it turns out that women are just
Um better at managing social relationships than men are okay. So this is sex at dawn by christopher ryan
and
um
He tries to show us that for most of human history woman had sexual agency and one piece of evidence is the fact that
Human men have larger penises
In fact the largest penises of all primates. Okay, so gorillas are much bigger than we are. We have bigger penises. Why?
because
um, we have to compete in order to
Put our semen into women right because women have multiple sexual partners
So that's one major advantage of sexual freedom for women men have bigger penises. Okay
all right, um
Even when women had long-term intimate partners husbands they had sexual partners
Okay, so the idea is that for most of human history love and sex were not the same thing
Love is intimacy sex is just fun. Okay
In some societies women would have many husbands usually brothers
Okay, and that's a way to maintain peace and harmony in your society
Okay, if a woman is allowed to marry many brothers together
Yeah
All right
so, um
the book looks at
The militant people where they practice
um
sexual freedom for
Woman and the explanation is that semen was essential to human growth and development
Okay
So so if a bride got married then all the men would come and impregnate her
Because the idea is that semen is sacred and they want to give her as much life as possible
Okay
All right now you may be disgusted by this, okay, but I think
There's a very good counter argument. Okay. So the argument is that
I is that it's not honorable for women to love anyone except her husband and that this evil
Being among them he himself was not sure that his son was there present was his son. Okay, so
This system sucks because if you're a guy, how do you know?
that
that person is your son
and the natives respond by saying
You french people okay, so he's talking about the french missionary you french people love only your own children, but we all love
All the children of our tribe. Okay
So that's what humans can do we can love each other. There's no limit to our love
So in the system that we have today a patriarchy we only love our own children
But in their system the agent system everyone loved each other's children. Okay
Everyone loved all children and quite honestly in this system
It's better to be a child, right?
And in this system, you would never ever develop depression
Okay
All right
Again women are just better politicians than men because women are more willing to cooperate
Women have more emotional intelligence and women can use sex and gossip as mechanism of control. Okay, so this is all pretty common sense
right
All right, but then question then is if this world is so wonderful, why did it collapse?
Well, there are three major issues with agricultural societies. Okay. The first major issue is that it's static. It does not innovate
Second major issue is climate change if the weather changes on you. You're screwed and the third problem is
Disease right because you're living close to animals. You're living close together. So if a disease hits you you're all screwed
Okay, and that's very different from the from the seps people who live far apart from each other
Okay. All right
So we know that in europe the farmer communities the population went
Collapse, okay
So so this is the level of carbon dioxide in the air. We can measure the level of carbon dioxide in the air
We know that in about the year 3000 bce the population collapsed. Okay. All right. It collapsed everywhere in europe
Why this happened?
The plague guys, okay
That's a problem with being a farmer. You are always susceptible to the plague
So we know that maybe you know, um 4000 5000 years ago
a
Plague broke out. Okay, the black death basically by rats. Okay, and remember in this world we train with each other
so the black death was able to go everywhere and wipe out farming communities, okay, even spread as far as
china
Okay, but but the thing though is the the steps people are not as impacted because they live far apart from each other
So if one got the disease you're not going to spread it to your entire family
Or sorry your entire community whereas a farmer community they will okay
So there's this huge drop in the population because of black death in europe. Okay, that's number one
Number two is climate change
so we know that um
Now and then there's this huge climate change and that destroys our culture forcing people to migrate
And this is what we suspect happen in old europe as well
Okay
and so what's happening now is that
Because your society is static because of disease because of climate change the population in europe went all the way down
Leaving the yamaya opportunity to come invade. Okay, and they did come invade. So as you can see
When the agricultural people came they came as families. Okay, so the blue is the man the red is the woman. Okay, so
Uh one to one they go into europe, but when the yamaya come they come as young men
Okay, so it's mainly blue. Okay, and of course what do young men do they come and they?
Steal your woman. Okay, that's what young men guy do you guys?
All right
And over time what they will do is slowly establish new cultures because what's happening is that their culture is blending with
other cultures as well
And what this is happening is the geography is different right so in the steps they have a certain culture
But when they move to agriculture, they now have to combine their culture the local ones and this happens
Everywhere producing different cultures and producing different languages as well
Okay, so
All of europe was radically transformed because of this migration and again this migration
It was basically a genocide. So you look at britain. Okay, the people who built stonehenge are gone
This is a farming agricultural community worship the mother goddess
Okay, then all this wonderful science technology that's now lost to us because what would happen is the yamaya would come and kill everyone
Okay, so this is the blue is the farmer people the red is the yamaya
total genocide, okay guys
Men and women were all killed
Why because maybe they chose the men and women chose to fight together
Okay
In spain it's a different story because
What happened is that all the
Men would be replaced. Okay, so the white chromosome is the male chromosome. So before the year 2000 bce
You had a lot of blue, right?
But as you can see if you move further, it's all gone. They killed all the men in spain
Okay, when they went to india, it's a different story
Because india indians
In that time were more peaceful
So they came to a settlement where the new conquerors would be at the top society
And the people would be and the locals would be at the bottom
Okay, so there was not much of a genocide but we had a caste system created because of that
Okay, and we know because if you look at the upper caste they all spoke indo-european
If you look at the lower caste people
They spoke the local language dravidian. Okay, does that make sense?
So depending on the circumstance the result is different
All right
Okay
This is a wonderful book called the horse the will and language written by david anthony who's a harvard anthropologist
And he explains to us the amnaya culture and why they were so dominant. Okay
so one thing
That is unique to the amnaya is their mythology it's a mythology of violence
Of struggle of dominance of conquest. Okay, and how the mythology works is
In the beginning there were two brothers twins one named man and the other named twin
They go around by the world and they're accompanied by a great cow
Eventually men and twin decided to create the world we now inhabit to do this man had to sacrifice twin
Okay, he had to kill his own brother the person he loved in order to create the world
And the gods thanked him for that the gods blessed him for that
Okay, so this is a world that is pretty violent. Okay
Um after world was made the sky gods gave cattle to third men the cattle were stolen by a three-headed
Six-eyed serpent. Okay, the snake
Third man and treated the storm got to help get the cattle back together. They went to the cattle
um of the monsters killed it and freed the cattle, okay, so this is a
mythology of struggle
Okay, and what's really interesting interesting is that this mythology becomes the the the mythology of all new
Uh proto indo european civilizations including the romans and the mongolians. Okay, so this is Genghis Khan
His mythology is what he kills his best friend to become the leader of the mongol people
And what's the roman mythology romans kills his twin brother to found rome, okay
All right, so that shows you that the mongols and the romans they come from the same culture
Okay, a culture based on violence
and exploitation
All right
So now anthony talks about the economy
Domesticated cattle and sheep started a revolutionary change in how humans explored the pontiac
Caspian steppe environment because cattle and sheep were cultured like humans
They were part of everyday work and worry in a way never approached by wild animals humans identify with their cattle and sheep
Well poetry about them and use them as currency in marriage gifts debt payments and the calculation of social status
Okay. Now we have the beginning of money and property, right?
Right
And they were grass processors
They converted plains of grass uses and even hostile to humans into wool fed clothing tents milk yogurt cheese
Meat marrow and bone the foundation of both life and wealth cattle and sheep herds can grow rapidly with a little luck
Vulnerable to bad weather and theft they can also decline rapidly herding was a volatile
Boom bust economy and required a flexible opportunistic social organization. So they live in a world
of tremendous volatility
Because the entire world was a cattle if the cow died because of a bad storm or because of bad luck, they were completely screwed
okay, so they were very aggressive people and
They um were opportunistic as well
That's different from farmers who can just afford to sit back and relax because nature will grow the food for them
Okay
The connection between animals brothers and power was a foundation on which new forms of male centered ritual and politics developed
Among indo-european speaking societies
This is why the cow and brothers occupied such a central place in indo-european myths relating to how the world began
Okay, so this is a deeply patriarchal society
All right
all right
Participation in long distance trade give exchange and a new set of cults requiring public sacrifices and feasting became the foundation for a new
Kind of social power stock breeding is by nature of volatile economy herders who lose animals always borrow from those who still have them
The social obligations associated with these loans are institutionalized among the world's past rulers as a basis for a fluid system of status distinctions
Those who loan animals with acquired power over those who borrow them and those who sponsored fees obligate their guests
Early proto-indo-european include a vocabulary about verbal contracts bound by oaths used in later religious rituals to
Supply the obligations between the weak and the strong. Okay. All right. So the idea here is there's no slavery in the system
Okay, but there is obligation. There's loyalty if I take you out for a meal. Guess what now you owe me a meal
If I take you out for a meal, you're not i'm now your big brother
Okay, and that's what keeps the society cohesive
And this is important because if no one's a slave and everyone's free
Then everyone is a great warrior because you're fighting for yourself
Okay, you're not fighting because someone asks you to that's why in wars between empires and these people these people usually win
Okay, because they're much more motivated
All right
Well military power and a more productive hurting system probably brought prestige and power to the identities associated with proto-indo-european dialects after
33 bce the guest host institution extended the protections of oath bound obligations to new social groups
An indo-european speaking patron could accept and integrate outsiders as clients without shaming them or assigning them permanently to submissive roles
As long as they conducted the sacrifices properly
Praise poetry of public feasts encourage patrons to be generous and validated the language of the songs as a vehicle for communication
With the gods who regulated everything, okay
so another way of saying this is that
Even though there are wealthy people and poor people they are still treated with respect. Okay, it's a very egalitarian society
Okay, and what keeps the system in place is the belief in the gods
Okay to believe that if I do you a favor then you owe me a favor
We have a contract now that gods oversee the contracts
And what's really important is that this is an open-ended system. So it's easy for me to bring in more people
into this system
Okay
Okay, and that's how and that's why again they were such an innovative cohesive and open society
Okay
Okay, the last thing we'll talk about are these young men who enter secret societies, okay and enter secret societies and become
um
You know like this mafia gangs, okay
The institution of the moribund the warrior brotherhood of young men bound by oath to one another and to ancestors during a ritually mandated raid
Has been reconstructed as a central part of proto indo-european initiation rituals. Okay. It's a very important part of society because
These young men otherwise have no place to go
And if you if you want to know who they are, they're basically the vikings. Okay, so the vikings are the direct
um
descendants of these people
All right
All right. So let's talk about the mongols the mongols conquer the world most of the world
And they and the question is how do they do it? Okay, and i've already told the answer
Okay, because the steppes people have always been good at conquering empires
um, these are the mongols, uh
The secret weapon, of course is a horse archer. This is like the ultimate weapon
For most of human history you could you could not defend against a horse archer. They were fast. They were strong
um, and these were the best warriors in the world so
um
This has been considered pattern in human history. Firstly, i came and conquered europe india and iran
But then you have the scythians, okay
same place same people same culture
guys, this is not a
Race of people. This is a culture of people. Okay, because remember at this time in human history
Genetic exchange is very common. Okay, the scythians were dominant
Then you have the medians who would later on give rise to the persian empire. Okay
Sorry
oops
Okay, sorry, okay, then you have sorry, can you see this? Okay. So now what's gonna happen is is this
you're gonna have
you're gonna so
the
Steppes people are all around the grassland now china emerges as an empire
Okay, and this is the han empire and this is really the last chinese dynasty
Why because they are ethnically chinese and they're proud of who they are
So what they're going to do is they're going to try to destroy the steps people once and for all
Okay
So they move a huge army into the steps to try to limit the threat
And what happens now is it forces a cascade effect where these people are now forced to go westwards
Which which forcing the conflict with people over here?
Okay, and so you have this huge migration all the way to the roman empire
Okay
Okay, so this is what the map shows us okay china forces the hans the shun nu
Westwards which then forces these other groups to go elsewhere. Okay
So again the strongest people stay in the steps the weakest people go and conquer empires
Okay, this is a process of constant innovation
Um the the han empire, okay
Attila han
Then you have the turks emerge
um
This is the mongol empire and as you can see they conquer mostly most of the world
Um
And because they conquer most of the world and the world is unified then you have the black death
Okay, which wipes out most of europe as well about a third of europe is wiped out in the black death
Okay, and the last great conqueror is timber lane. Okay timber the lane the great last great conqueror of the from the steps
Um in congress most of the world
Okay
So this is a really important principle remember the steps people are the most innovative the most open the most aggressive the most courageous
And that's why they're the greatest conquerors in history
Okay, but eventually what happens is
We develop gunpowder, okay
And now the steps will be conquered by civilization
But this is the turning point in history the invention of gunpowder
And so now what's going to happen is that civilization will now attack the steps people and reduce the sub people
a culture
Okay, and that is it
right
Okay, any questions guys?
Um, so so I was wondering like, uh, so the bembarians the steps are they're capable of developing, uh,
Re
Religions because they're all conquering all around the world. So it's difficult for them to like build up temples, right?
Okay
So religions don't require temples religion is just collective belief. So as I say
As you keep on saying in this class all humans have a religion
Okay, a religion is just a worldview
Understanding of how the world works that answers three questions. Where do we come from? Why are we here? Where are we going?
Okay, even today even though we're atheists
We're still religious. Okay, but we worship money
materialism
science
So these people the steps they worship the horse the sky god the cow
They worship war they worship
Courage and bravery, okay
So every culture every person has a religion of some sorts because because you because it's impossible for you to understand the world
And operate in the world about a religion, okay, especially for groups
Okay, any more questions?
Okay, great guys, so we'll so we'll continue our discussion of human history next class, okay
