Okay, so welcome back from the break. Today I want to talk about an incident
that happened in October 2015 at Yale University. What happened was this.
Halloween is coming up and on Halloween people like to dress up silly, get drunk,
have a good time. And a university department called the Intercultural
Affairs Committee sent an email to students saying it's Halloween, you guys
want to have fun, that's fine, but please be sensitive about the feelings of other
people. So for example, do not dress up like a panda because we have Chinese
students and they might be offended if you dress up like a panda. Okay, so this
email went out to all the students at Yale and one teacher who works at a
residential college called Silliman. Okay, so Yale University is
divided into dormitories called residential colleges and she is a dean
with her husband of this college called Silliman. And to her students she
writes an email and says that she didn't agree with the university email. She
says that a university is a place for you to explore, experiment and make
mistakes. So yes, be sensitive about the feelings of others, but we trust you to
make mistakes and to recover from them, okay? So the debate was essentially over
safe space versus free space. The university said that safe space is
important, we must respect the feelings of others. But the Dean of Silliman, her
name is Erica Christakis, she believes in the idea of free space. So a university is
a place for debate, for questioning, for experimentation. And yes, feelings will be
hurt, that's part of the growing up process, intellectual process. So let me
ask you a question. Do you guys agree with number one, who argues for safe
space, or number two, Erica Christakis, who argues for free space? What do you
think? Can you speak into the mic please? Yeah, why do you believe
number two is correct? Because I think that university is a place
that you could explore yourself, you know, jump out of your comfort zone and try
the things that you never experienced before. Okay, who disagrees? Who believes
it's more important to respect the feelings of others? Like, did the
college prohibit these dressing that may be offensive to other students?
It's just in the campus, if you like walk out in a society, it still will have the
people like, wants to dress maybe like a panda or something. So I think it's, I
think it's like necessary to like to, well, yeah. Okay, all right, any other opinions?
Any other opinions? Okay, so you say respect the rules, right? I think, I think
it depends on who decided. It feels like for myself, I think free space will be
more important. I need to explore what I want, but for being as a leader, being as
a head of the college, I think safe space will be more important for them because
they need to take in control. Okay, right, but the problem is, this is a conflict,
right? If the teachers care about safe space, you cannot have free space, right?
So the question then is, what do you think in principle is more important,
free space or safe space? Safe space. Okay, okay, all right, okay. So yeah, so most
students believe safe space is more important and this marks a generational
shift because when I was growing up, there was no debate. It was just assumed
that free space is more important because if you're not allowed to make
mistakes, you're not allowed to explore, you're not allowed to argue with other
people, if your feelings don't get hurt, you will never grow as a person, okay? So
this marks a generational divide or generational gap, okay? So we're gonna
look at what happened because of this debate. So the students who read the
email were offended that Erica Christakis was arguing for free space
because they believed that by doing this, you're gonna hurt our feelings, all
right? And so let's look at what happened. And remember, this is Yale University.
So what's happening is that when Nicholas Christakis, the husband of
Erica Christakis, went to a meeting, he was surrounded by students and they're confronting him.
They're confronting him. They're arguing. They're telling you that you are being racist, you are being
offensive, you admitted that you hurt us. Why can't you say sorry?
Okay, so look, I'm not saying which side is correct, okay?
Both sides have legitimate points, both sides have problems, but you will notice
that he, the professor, he's much older than the students and the students are
treating him, you can see their faces, right? They're treating him with some
contempt and that's not appropriate. And when I was growing up, we didn't do this.
If you're like a professor, you thought, well, he's an asshole, but you know what?
Most professors are assholes because they're professors, okay? You did not
go and like stalk the guy and complain to him. That's kind of disrespectful, all
right? So the question then is, why is this happening? So I want to show you
another video. And this video is kind of crazy, okay? This video.
Okay, so this is not appropriate, okay? Again, both sides have legitimate points,
but this is not appropriate, right? Because what you're saying to him is, you
work for us, your job is to make us feel at home, and his response is that my
job is to help you learn, my job is to help you grow, and that means openness,
that means debate, that means pain, and her response is, I don't want that crap, I
want to feel good, I want to feel at home, I don't be challenged. And if you
think about it, that defeats the entire point of university. So again, I'm not
saying who's right, I'm not saying who's wrong, but clearly there's a problem here.
And when I went to Yale a long time ago, we didn't have any of this. In fact, this
sort of incident where a student would curse a professor, it was unimaginable to
us, okay? So the question then is, why is this happening? And there are three
explanations for why this is happening. The first explanation is parenting. These
kids grew up in very privileged households, and their parents are very
protective of them, and their parents treat them like friends, and so these
kids are spoiled, okay? That's the first explanation. The second explanation is
the idea of a consumer's mentality. So in a university, the idea is that the
students are consumers, they're customers, and the customers are always right. What
the customers want, you have to give them. So if the customers want a safe
space, they want to come and enjoy their time at university, and they don't really
professors have to meet their demands. Otherwise, he should not have this job,
okay? And this is a mentality that we call neoliberalism or consumerism, okay?
That's the second explanation, okay? The third explanation is ideological. So the
idea is that at universities, universities are overrun by left-wing
professors who teach students that society is racist against minorities who
happen to be, you know, black and female, and they must overturn the white racist
supremacist structure, and you do that by telling white professors who are
privileged that they are racist, okay? So these are three standard explanations
for why this is happening, because this sort of stuff is happening quite a lot
in America. What I want to argue to you today is that there's actually another
explanation which I think is much more compelling, and the explanation is that
universities have become bureaucracies. Before, universities existed to teach
you how to think, to help professors do cutting-edge research that helps a
society improve or innovate. But today, universities including Yale, Harvard, all
the universities have become bureaucracies that exist in order to
promote the interests of the administrators who want to sit in their
office, get really nice, get a really big salary, and feel good about
themselves, okay? That's the argument I will make to you today, and what I will
show you is that this is not just true for universities, it's true for every
major organization in America and in the Western world and arguably all around the
world, okay? That's the argument I will make to you today. Any questions before I
begin? All right, okay? So today's lecture is death by bureaucracy, how the idea of
bureaucracy, the bureaucratic mindset, is taking over the world. All right, so let's
talk about another incident at Yale, okay? This is Yale Law School, and a student
named Trevor Colbert, he says an email, he has a party, he says an email to all
the students at Yale Law School, and there are actually not that many
students at Yale Law School, there's maybe 300, okay? But all the students get it,
and he says that he's gonna organize a party, it's a trap house party, and you
know, it's a bit of a joke, because trap house means actually a drug house, a
place where drug dealers sell drugs. But black students, African-American students,
read the email, and they're offended, and they're like, are you making fun of
black students? So they write a letter of complaint to the deans of Yale Law
School, and there are two deans who investigate, okay? Their names are Eldick
and Cosgrove, okay? And they sit, and what Trevor Colbert does is, he actually
records the meeting, okay? Secretly, 20 minutes they talk, and basically Colbert
does not believe he did anything wrong. He sent an email, and he said it was a
funny email, he thought it was funny, okay? But the deans tell him, you think it's funny,
but other students found it offensive, so you need to apologize. And Colbert's like,
okay, well I'll tell you what, if these students thought that what I wrote was
offensive, then I will talk to them. We will talk together about why they found
the email offensive, and we will settle this amongst ourselves. And the deans are like,
no, no, no, we want to help you guys out. We want to protect you guys. We're
afraid that you guys meet, you guys will fight even more. And Trevor Colbert's
like, well I want to hear what they think. I don't want to hear this from you, I
want to hear what they think, okay? And then what happens is that the deans start
to threaten Trevor Colbert. They basically tell him, these things apply over time, so
you must apologize right away, for your sake, okay? And they tell him, listen, if
you do not apologize, then this might affect your career, this might affect your
social circle. Okay, so they're threatening him. And what they say is, we're doing this for
your sake, okay? Eric says he worries about the email affecting a student's
reputation, not just here, but when you leave. You know the legal community is a
small one. And he says, you know what, I will write the email for you. I will
craft the apology for you. And Karl Scroff warns that escalation is a
possibility if the student doesn't apologize, okay? So this is coercion. And
again, the student, it's not clear what the student did wrong. Some students
found it offensive, but it's not clear what rules or laws or what regulations
Trevor Colbert broke, okay? It's not clear. So why is this happening, okay? My argument to you
is that it's happening because these guys, Karl Scroff and L.O. Eldick, they need
things to do. Because being a dean of a university, it's not a real job, right?
There are professors who teach, there are researchers who do research, but deans
actually don't do anything. So when you have a bureaucracy, bureaucrats go make
problems for everyone in order to create solutions for everyone, okay? So
another saying this is, 20 years ago, 30 years ago, when I was a student at Yale, if you had a
problem, you had to go talk to a professor because there was no one else to
talk to. Nowadays, you can talk to like 20 or 30 different deans, dean of student
affairs, dean of student faculty, who knows, okay? But there are like all these
offices they can go to. And quite honestly, it's the same at the school as well, right? If you don't
like me as a teacher, there's like four or five different people you can
complain to. And quite honestly, a lot of you do complain, okay? So I know about
this. And what is happening is, these universities have become bureaucracies.
Now the question then is, why the bureaucracies? And the answer is, in the beginning, as a
university, you have to build your reputation, right? So you work hard, you focus on
teaching, you focus on research. So it's a struggle to become a global brand. Once
you become that global brand, there's nothing else to do. There's no more
ideology, there's no more struggle. So what happens is, the people in charge
start engaging in rent-seeking behavior. They take advantage of the position in
order to make their life easier. And then they pass on this privilege to their
friends and then to their children. And this creates a bureaucracy. And the
university starts to exist in order to empower these people at the expense of
students and professors, okay? All right, so to show you how ridiculous this has
become, here's an example. This is from CNN, okay? And this is the year 2020. A
University of South California professor is under fire for using a Chinese
expression students allege sounds like an English slur, okay? So there's a
Chinese word that sounds like a racial slur, an insult in English. These two
words actually do not sound the same, okay? You know what the word is, right?
It's not the same as the English word, but it sounds a bit
similar. So what happened was, some black students, African-American students, who
were not in his class, okay, wrote a letter of complaint. And honestly, if you read it,
it sounds like a joke, it sounds like a prank. All right, so let's read it together.
So this is a professor, Greg Patton, and he's just teaching
communication Chinese. He's just teaching Chinese to his students on how to
communicate in China when you do business, okay? And he says, look, nega, it's
just a filler, it doesn't really mean anything. And he says it a few times, but
there's no bad intention in what he's saying, right? I mean, he's just
pointing out a fact. So what these students write is, this phrase clearly and
precisely before instruction is always identified as a phonetic, homonym, and a
racial derogatory term, and should be carefully used, especially in the context
of speaking Chinese, within the social context of the United States, okay? So this is a
ridiculous idea. And honestly, it sounds like a joke, okay? It just sounds like
these students are playing a joke. And the administration just
ignored this, right? Guess what happens? The dean, okay, the head of the business
school, announced that a different professor would take over teaching Patton's
class. He fired Patton. And then he said, Professor Patton repeated several times
a Chinese word that sounds very similar to a vile racial slur in English.
Understandably, this caused great pain and upset among students, and for that I'm
deeply sorry. It is simply unacceptable for faculty to use words in class that
can marginalize, hurt, and harm the psychological safety of our students. We
must, and we will do better, okay? He's being retarded. It's a joke, it's a prank,
and he's taking it very seriously. Why? Because he's trying to protect his job.
He's trying to look good. He's trying to explain why I'm the leader, because I
protect everyone, okay? So then again, why is this happening? Well, again, the
idea of bureaucracy. So this is the University of California, San Diego. This
is student enrollment, okay? So you can see a slight increase in student
enrollment, but look at this. Senior management, deans, administrators, managers,
boom, okay? Boom. This is called rent-seeking behavior. This is people in
power taking advantage of their power to give jobs to their friends who do
nothing every day, and because of that, they're always looking to cause problems
for everyone else, especially professors who do real work, okay? So let's just look
at universities. As you can see, the blue is teaching. So what's really
interesting is that the investment in teaching has gone down, okay? So the
investment in teaching has gone down, the blue, okay? But look at this. The red is
administration. So over the past, from 1980 to today, over the past 40 years,
universities have put less money into both administration as well as
maintenance, but have put more money into administration, into bureaucracy, okay?
This is where your money is going, guys, all right? So this is Illinois. You see a
massive surge in managers, but at the same time, student enrollment is going down.
It went down three percent, all right? So this is a paper written about the
Swedish education system, the higher education system, okay? It's no
different anywhere else, all right? So the argument is that bureaucracy
is ballooning in Swedish higher education. So let's look at some
interesting statistics. All right, so what's happening is that this chart
tells you that teachers are teaching more and more students, okay? Teachers are
teaching more and more students, but administrators are managing less and less
students. And the reason why is teachers are fewer and fewer, but managers are
more and more. That makes no sense, okay? So you can see that teachers and
researchers, it's pretty flat, okay? It doesn't really explain that much, but
secretaries, people who do real work, it's going down, but managers are going up,
okay? So if the university is facing problems, the first thing you should cut
are the people who do no work, right? But it's the opposite. People who do no work, the
managers, keep their jobs, and in fact they pay themselves more. The professors
and the maintenance and the secretaries lose their jobs to cut costs, okay?
This is how much they're paid. As you can see, over the same time period, secretaries
are getting paid less and less, teachers are getting paid less and less, but look
at this. Managers are getting paid more and more. These are the different
departments, okay, of a university. So as you can see, okay, the jobs, the
departments that do real work, IT, HR, they're going down, but management is
going up, right? So the people who do absolutely no work, their jobs keep on
going up and up, and they get paid more and more. And as I said, the problem of
bureaucracy is not only do managers do nothing every day, but they expect others
to do more work, okay? So professors, researchers, teachers, they're doing more
work because the managers are giving them more paperwork to do, okay? Like
evaluations and all that. So professors spend now almost 20% of their
workday on paperwork given to them by managers, and this paperwork is not
necessary. It's just given to them to justify the jobs of the managers, okay?
This is America. We go back to America, and as you can see, this is a university
called Gallaudet, and as you can see, over a 20-year period, there's the blue
are the salaries of professors, and it's pretty stable, okay? You went from 72 to
86, not a huge increase, but look, for managers, okay, the president, it doubled
from 141 to 280. It doubled. Right now, the salaries are over three times as
much as faculty. This is Connecticut. At Yale, the president makes two million
dollars a year. At Westland, he makes three million dollars a year, okay?
This is a private university called Stratford University, and it went
bankrupt. Right now, more and more universities are going bankrupt because
obviously, you have too many managers, and all they do is get huge paychecks for
doing nothing. Eventually, you're gonna go bankrupt, right? Just, yeah?
Sorry to interrupt, but the school board is not stupid, so, I mean,
this is a fact, and so why don't they just change anything? That's a great
question, okay? The reason why is they're all friends. The school board, the
president, the vice president, they're all friends, and that's why they can't do
this because they control all the power. They're all friends, and it's in their
best interest to steal together, right? Because if you steal by yourself, then you
might get caught, but if you steal together, then you're untouchable, okay? So
this is exactly what happens at Stratford University. The university goes
bankrupt because the president and the vice president are stealing from the
university, stealing because they are not only collecting huge paychecks, but
they're also expensing everything to the university. So for example, they
buy a car, or they have a gym membership, they charge the university, and if the
university can't pay for it, what they do is they lend money to the university, okay?
All right, so Schultz is the president. He lists himself and his wife as the
biggest creditors, claiming that the university owes the couple 2.5 million
for eight promissory notes, okay? So the university could not pay their cars or
the house mortgages, and the Schultz are like, don't worry about it, we'll
lend you the money, and then when the university went bankrupt, it was like, okay, now
you have to pay me back, all right? So again, how were they able to do this?
Because the filings also shed light on payments to university insiders in its
final year of operation. The college paid out of over $30,000 in 7 to 7
trustees. So the people at the top were getting paid off, even as the university
was going bankrupt. Though the filing doesn't differentiate which expenses
were Richard's and which were Mary Ann's, the filings for 2020 alone showed over
$18,000 in lease and insurance payments for the Schultz cars, okay? So they had
cars and they were making the university pay for these cars. Over $4.7 million in
loan payments and collateral return to Eagle Bank on behalf of the Schultz, okay?
So they're also making the university pay for their houses as well. And then
you're like, how could they do this? Well, the answer is because in America, the
rich always wins in the court system. So whoever is able to hire the best lawyers
always wins out. And they have a lot of money, the university is bankrupt, they
don't have a lot of money. So they will win out, okay? So I point this out
because this is what's gonna happen to many universities over the
next 5-10 years in America. Because you have a system where you have the
managers at the top, they are all best friends, they're all stealing from the
university together and eventually the university will bankrupt. So that's
America. Okay, but it's not, again, it's not just the universities, it's every
bureaucracy, every organization is happening like this. So you look at
Canada. In Canada, you can see a rise of 9% in the population, but look at the
government, okay? It's went up by 26%. In America, you can see a stark decline in
manufacturing jobs starting in about the 1980s because these jobs were being
offshore to China. But at the same time, you see this steady increase in
government jobs, okay? So people in America are doing less real work and more
and more people are becoming bureaucrats. Okay, so as you can see, the growth in the
government is usually in management, okay? People who will work, no, it's pretty flat.
But look at the managers, look at the administrators, okay? They're going way
up and it's a pretty steady increase. All right, so how do we know the government
doesn't really do anything? Okay, so there's a study that shows us that it's
looking at rules, okay? So rules help society be more efficient. So as you can
see, the number of rules have gone down actually. The number of significant rules,
rules that actually impact you day to day, have gone way down. But, this is
interesting, the paperwork has gone up, okay? So this tells us the managers,
administrators, and federal government of the United States, they don't do
anything but produce paperwork that's meaningless. That's actually no impact on
the lives of ordinary people, okay? Okay, let's look at the military. So
everyone believes that America has the world's greatest military because it
spends the most on the military and has all these high-tech weapons, right? The
problem is the bureaucracy in the military right now. So you see what's
happening is an increase in management because the ratio of manager officer to
soldier is going down, okay? So you have more officers and less soldiers. That's a
problem when you're fighting a war. All right, so in a civil war, and this is the 1860s,
you had one officer for every 14 soldiers. Now it's one to four, okay? The
biggest problem is the increase in generals, okay? So you can see three and
four-star generals have increased the most. In World War II, America had about
12 million soldiers. They had seven generals who were four-star. Today, America
has about 1.2 million soldiers. They have 40 four-star generals, and this is a huge
problem. Why? Because if you're a four-star general, you have a lot of privileges
beyond your salary. So this is from Raymond Dubas, who works in the
Pentagon, and he writes about the perks of a four-star general. A four-star has
an airplane. A three-star often doesn't. Can a three-star get an airplane when he
needs it? Not always, okay? So a four-star general always has his own personal
airplane. What is his personal airplane? It's called a G5. This is what a G5 is, guys.
This is what a G5 is. This is his own personal plane. It's always there for him.
If he doesn't want to fly, it's waiting on the tarmac for him, okay? You can see
how luxurious it is. This costs 50 to 60 million dollars per plane. Every four-star
general has this plane. At the same time, guys, what's happening to soldiers? The
soldiers don't have enough to eat. There's 1.2 million veterans on food stamps,
okay? That's 8% of all veterans in America. The people who actually fight,
the people who actually make sacrifices for their country, don't have enough to
eat, while the generals fly around in like these really nice planes. That's the
state of the American military, all right? So it's not just the military. It's every
single US government department, okay? All the administrators, you see massive
increase in administration, all right? So people who do real work, hey, is the red.
People who do absolutely no work is the blue, okay? So people who do science, math,
engineering, 621. People who do administration, 1782. So in every federal
bureaucracy, you have bloat. You have managers who do nothing, and you have very
few people who do the actual real work. It's true for every single federal
organization in America. So this just shows you the ratio of managers and
supervisors to other employees. What's really funny about bureaucracy is
evaluation is very important. Who does the evaluation? Managers do the
evaluation. So at the end of the year, they do performance review, and what
happens is they tell, they evaluate themselves, and their friends say, you really
did a great job. They then look at other people who do the real work and says, you
guys could do better, okay? So outstanding is the highest performance
reveal for the government, right? 64% got outstanding, okay?
Managers who do nothing every day. 47% got outstanding for every other job, all
right? So it's a wig game. Same thing with hospitals. The brown is the
growth in doctors. You can see it's pretty steady, but look at the
administrators, okay? The yellow are the administrators. It's blowing up, okay? And
so it forces health care costs to go up. The reason why health care is so
unaffordable in the United States is not because it has the best health care in
the world. It doesn't. It's expensive because it's got so many
administrators who do nothing every day, all right? So what do these managers
do? Well, the managers always think of new ways to screw everyone else, okay? So
these are health insurance companies, and this is their denial rates, okay? So you
work hard. For 40 years, you pay your health insurance, okay? And then maybe you
get cancer, and then you go to a doctor. The doctor charges you like a million
dollars, and you're like, you don't have a million dollars, but you have insurance.
So you go to an insurance company. It's like, hey, I paid 40 years of insurance
fees. Can you help me out? And look, the insurance company, United
Health Care, about a third, 32% of all claims are denied, and they do this as
practice because if you fight them, they'll say, okay, you know what, we'll
agree to pay you back, okay? But if you don't fight them, then they're like, great!
Okay? So it's extremely unethical, and so that's what managers do every day.
They think of new ways to screw over their patients and doctors, all right? So
why is this happening, all right? Why is America like this? Why is the West like
this? Why is the entire world like this? So this is Franz Kafka, and he was
writing before World War I. This is his most famous book called The Trial, okay?
I'm not sure if you guys have read this book or heard of this book, okay? It's
very good, and the novel, it's a very interesting novel because the main
character, Joseph K., he works at a bank, he's a bank clerk, and he has never
gotten into trouble his entire life, okay? He's very obedient, he's very nice, he
just sticks to himself, and then one day the police come and arrest him. The police
don't tell him why, and Joseph K. tries to figure out why, but he does not
know what he did wrong. He does not know why he's being arrested, and then he's
put on trial, and the judge doesn't tell him what he did wrong, okay? And Joseph K.
tries to figure out why this is happening to me, okay? And this is his
answer. Its purpose is to arrest innocent people and wage pointless
prosecutions against them, which, as in my case, lead to no result. How are we to
avoid those in office becoming deeply corrupt when everything is devoid of
meaning, okay? Because society has become a bureaucracy, and bureaucrats need things
to do. So they go, the police go and arrest innocent people, and then send
them to trial, okay? Now what he doesn't say is, the police could arrest
criminals, right? But the police don't want to do that because the criminals might
fight back, or the criminals might be mean, okay? They'd rather arrest an
innocent person because they know the person will be compliant, okay? That's the
logic of bureaucrats. How do I justify my existence by doing as little work as
possible, okay? So this sounds strange, but let me tell you a story. This is a true
story. I'm in Toronto with my two boys, and I let them run around the park, okay?
And we've been doing this for two months, so I trust them. One of my boys, he's four
years old, he runs too far, and I lose track of him, okay? A stranger finds him
and starts talking to him, but my boy doesn't speak any English. So people now
surround my boy, like, where are your parents? And he is scared because he
doesn't speak any English, so he faints, okay? That's what he does, he faints to
protect himself. So they call the police, and they call the paramedics, they
come, they make sure he's alright, okay? Now I find him, okay? And now the police
interview me, they interrogate me, and I explain to him what happened. And at this
point, they just let us go home, right? But they insist on taking us to the
hospital. I'm like, if we go to the hospital, we could be stuck there for like 12
hours. We could be in line, and like the paramedics, the MIT has already told us
there's something wrong with him, okay? It's not he's stroke, he just fainted, but
he's fine. His vital signs are fine, but the police keep on insisting. Meanwhile,
there's a fight going on at the park, okay? And I think to myself, why are you
guys bothering me, and not going to arrest those guys who are fighting
somewhere else? And the answer is because it's easier to deal with me than it is to go
arrest those guys, okay? That's how barricades think. They always think of ways to
justify the existence, but not do real work, okay? And that's the message of the
trial. Eventually, society becomes so bureaucratic that the bureaucrats only
think about how to make problems for ordinary citizens, because life becomes
easier for them, okay? Does that make sense? All right, let's move on to the
origins of totalitarianism by Hannah Arendt. Hannah Arendt is one of
the 20th century's most powerful intellectuals, and she's writing about how
Nazism came to dominate Germany, and how communism came to dominate Soviet Russia,
and how these two regimes led to the deaths of tens of millions of people. How
they started World War II, how they quit the Holocaust, how they quit the famine,
okay? And in her book, she says that these two regimes are religious cults,
they're evil cults, and they have three defining characteristics, okay? The first
is that they're removed from reality. They don't care about reality. They have
a religion, they have a faith, they have a mindset, and they want to impose their faith
on reality, okay? They don't care about reality. They're removed from reality. That's the
first thing, okay? Second thing is that when you're removed from reality, your
only logic is movement, expansion, okay? You only know if you're right if you're
growing, okay? So if the Nazis, their faith, their religion, would lead to the
destruction of Germany, but their membership was increasing, so they were
right. They were winning these wars against European countries, therefore
they're right, okay? They cannot use logic to explain their actions, so they use
movement to justify their actions, okay? That's number two. One and two means
number three, which is the Nazis and the Soviets hated reality. They defied
reality. They fought against reality. So even though the Nazis were losing the
war, even though it's clear they cannot defeat the Soviet Russia, they doubled
down, because in their religion, movement is what matters. Defying reality is what
matters, and that's what led to the destruction of Germany, okay? All right, so
and she explains that totalitarian regimes have these three characteristics. They're
removed from reality. All they care about is expansionism, and they want to defy
reality as their true test of faith. What she does not say in the book is that
these three can apply to all bureaucracies, all governments, meaning
that over time, all governments, all bureaucracies will tend towards
totalitarianism, because that's the only way they can justify their
existence, okay? Does that make sense? All right, so let's talk about this
concretely, okay? What do I mean by this? So this is a book by James Scott. It's
an excellent book, by the way, called Seeing Like a State, and he's trying to
explain to us how bureaucracies work, how governments function, and for
him, governments actually create more problems than they solve. Why? Well, he
lists four reasons. The first is that all they care about is the administrative
ordering of nature and society. So another way of saying this is a
bureaucracy is a machine. It's a hierarchy. It's static. It's mechanical, but
society is like a forest. It's diverse. It's an ecosystem. It's organic. For a
state to exist, it must turn the forest into a machine like itself. So it
destroys diversity. It destroys spontaneity. It destroys
imagination, okay? All right, so let's use an example of this, all right? So my
question to you is, like, who are you? Can you tell us who are you? Like,
who are you as a person? Tell us who you are as a person. Yeah, yeah, just use one
or two minutes to introduce yourself. Who are you as a person?
Hi, my name is Banker, and I grew up in Beijing, and I came to the school in 2024
last year. Okay, wrong, wrong, okay? That's not the correct answer. The
right answer is you're a teenage boy, okay? That's the correct answer, all right?
You believe that you are an individual with individual aspirations, ambitions,
with a past, with a history. The state doesn't care. The state needs to classify you in a
way that can use you, okay? You're a teenage boy, which means, like,
two years time you can be employed in a factory, or I can send you to war, okay?
That's all I care about, okay? I don't care about your name. I don't care about
who you are. I don't care who your parents are. I don't care about your past.
I don't care what you like. All I care about is the fact that you are a teenage
boy, and therefore I can exploit you for labor, okay? That's how states think, okay?
So, the bureaucratization of society. Second is the idea of high-marners ideology.
So, because the state is a monopoly, the bureaucracy is a monopoly, it becomes arrogant.
It has hubris, it's overconfident, and it wants to impose its ideology on everyone else.
It believes that, through its own planning, it can achieve paradise, okay?
So, it becomes authoritarian, meaning it refuses to listen to criticism, to feedback,
to questions. It is not open to debate. It imposes its will on people, okay? Which creates a weak
civil society. And if, as an organization, you're not getting feedback, you're not allowing for
openness, then you will wither and die, okay? And that's why states, governments will always fail
in the end. Okay, so he uses two examples. The first example is what happened in the late 19th
century Germany. So, in Germany, there's lots of forests, and the state is thinking of ways,
how can we best monetize the resource of the forest? Well, there's certain trees that you
can cut down for lumber, right? The problem is that, in a forest, most space is occupied by
useless shrubs or greenery or trees, okay? So, their broad idea is, you know what,
here's a simple solution. We'll burn down a forest and just plant trees that we can harvest for
lumber, right? Brilliant. That's a brilliant use of space. It's more efficient. The problem,
though, is that when you do that, the trees are now susceptible to disease, to weather changes.
A forest is resilient because it's diverse, okay? So, that's what Scott says. Monocultures are,
as a rule, more fragile and hence more vulnerable to the stress of disease and weather than
polycultures are. Any unmanaged forest may experience stress from storms, disease, drought,
fragile soil or severe cold. A diverse, complex forest, however, with its many species of trees,
its full complement of birds, insects and mammals is far more resilient, far more able to withstand
recover from such injuries than peer stands. So, nature has diversity because it allows for
resilience, okay? Some part of the forest can die, but the rest of the forest will recover from
anything, whether it's disease or drought or weather, okay? And we humans are the same way.
If you let humans do what they want, we are resilient. So, some communities might die off,
but other communities will adapt. The problem with state, with government, is that
it refuses, it sees diversity as an enemy, okay? So, if there's a natural disaster,
it's very likely that a lot more people die off than otherwise, okay? Another example is
forest communism in Tanzania, okay? So, it's a top-down system and their idea is, okay,
these farmers, they have their little small farms and they grow their crops, but that's not
efficient. What if we just got all the farmers together and had coffee and they all, you know,
had coffee or wheat or whatever, and then we can sell this to other countries, okay? And of course,
you can imagine that this will lead to starvation because it's the same principle as the forest.
If there's a weather crisis or if there's a disease, then all your crops die off and then
your people die off, okay? What these planners carry in their minds are a certain aesthetic,
what one might call a visual qualification of modern rural production and community life, okay?
So, the problem with bureaucrats is they have no imagination. Everything to them has to be mapped
out. They like things that can be mapped out, that can be a blueprint, okay? They like to brag about
these things because that's how they see the world. But in the real world, nature requires diversity,
it requires organic, okay? All right, so he gives examples of how the state transforms society.
So, before, what would happen is that people would just come together and they would organize
the communities according to their needs, okay? It's a bottom-up process, but the state wants to
create permanent cities where people are just in one place all the time, right? That's why you have
cities. Before, what's natural is just for people to live on small farms and share stuff with other
people to trade with each other. The problem with this is the state cannot tax you. So, what the
state does is it brings you to cities, makes you work in a factory so it can tax you, okay? The point
of giving a wage is so it can tax you, to exploit you. Property, before, it was very common for people
to share property together, okay? Now, it's all owned and controlled by the state. Resources are
the same thing. Before, people just used resources according to their needs, but now the state wants
to centralize these resources, okay? So, it can tax and exploit people properly, okay? So, that's
what a state bureaucracy does. So, what are the consequences of the over-bureaucratization of society?
Well, what's happening in America is that while consumer goods like cars, clothing, and cell phones
are going down, what's going up are hospital services, schooling, okay? Housing. Why? Because
these are monopolies controlled by bureaucrats, right? So, what's happening is with the over-bureaucratization
of society, it's almost impossible for middle-class people, ordinary people to have a good life now, okay?
Here's another really interesting chart. The black shows you the growth in the stock market, okay?
And you think, wow, this is a good thing, okay? The problem is, first of all, only 10% of people
in the United States control most of the stocks, over 90% of the stocks. The other issue is this.
The other issue is, if you look at prices, yeah, it's gone up, but if you just turn, but if you look
at stocks as units of gold, if you just go to buy stocks, guess what? The price of stocks have gone
down. The price of stocks have gone down. That's the blue, okay? If you use money to buy stocks,
it goes up, but if you use gold to buy stocks, it goes down. What this is telling us, okay? Very simple
is we are living in a lie. All this wealth generation, it's all a lie. It's not real.
We just think it's real. We're living in a fairyland created by bureaucrats to fool us
to believe that we are prosperous, okay? Does that make sense? The amount of gold that you can buy
with stocks has gone down, okay? So the blue is the gold, the black is money. The money is worthless, okay?
All right, another problem that bureaucratization has created is people don't want to work anymore.
So in America, this is called quite quitting. In China, it's called Teng Ping or Bai Lan, okay?
Lying flat, let it rot. People don't want to work anymore. Why? Because it's pointless to work
in a bureaucracy, right? Leaders don't care. The bureaucracy doesn't need you.
You are alienated. You are told what to do and you cannot negotiate. You cannot rise from the
bureaucracy. You're being asked to work too much. You feel as though you're just a machine, okay?
And so the way you rebel is lying flat or quite quitting, okay? So bureaucratization of society
means that people now have become more lazy, more complacent, more indifferent.
And what this also means is that democracy is declining because people's voice,
people's power, is declining, okay? So you can see that people feel as though democracy is in
the decline. In fact, experts estimate that democracy, the capacity for people to participate
in politics, the capacity for people to influence politics, the capacity for people to influence
politics has declined rapidly these past 10 years, okay? So we are living in a world that is becoming
more and more bureaucratic and it's killing us, okay? All right, questions?
So as you say, we now live in a very corrupt world.
We live in a bureaucratic world. Yeah, bureaucratic world. So what, so I can't really see the future of
no matter it's the mankind or like, are there any good side of the current world?
Okay, what are the good things about the current world? Well, the good side is that because things
have become so corrupt, people now are forced to think for themselves, right? Before you could just
trust your teacher, you just trust your parent, you just trust authority figures, but now you see
them for the bureaucrats that they are and so now you're forced to think for yourself and so
you're now forced to educate yourself, you're now forced to explore different opinions.
So people's minds are opening and that I think is a very good thing in today's world, okay?
Any more questions?
So will it help if we cancel most of the managers and just like keep one or two of them?
Yeah, okay, so that's a really good question, okay? If this is a problem, why not just give
it to the managers? And the answer is, they have all the power, okay? They would much rather send
you to war and kill you off than to tend to lose their jobs, okay? So go back to the example of
Stanford University, their mentality is how do I maintain my privilege? They don't care about
society, all they care about is maintaining their privilege, right? So they are bankrupt society and
then when society becomes bankrupt, they expect society to still continue to pay them off, okay?
So these are parasites and there's nothing we can do about it, yeah?
As we just said, are there less teacher and less professor or like most people would choose to
quit quitting, then who are they going to control if there's less people to work for them?
You know, okay, that's a really good question. The problem is, they don't think like that,
don't think about how efficient is my organization, don't think about like,
am I going to have a job next five years? All they care about is maintaining the position
right here and now, okay? And the way they do that is, they hire their friends or people like them
into other management positions, so they become like a cabal or a network onto themselves.
And for them, they become parasites and what parasites want to do is, they want to
feed off the host and the host dies, what's going to happen? They will switch to another host,
right? Why? Because they're all part of larger networks as well, so that's how they think,
they're thinking, well, you know, as long as society survives, I will continue to have a job,
okay? So maybe this university goes bankrupt, but there's another university I can go to
and exploit and you know what? It works, okay? Because people at the top protect each other,
right? Okay, does that make sense? They don't care about this host, they don't care about this
organization, they don't care if it goes bankrupt because they can always move on to another
organization to bankrupt, okay? What matters is to maintain their patronage, their political networks,
so they all help each other, okay? Does that make sense? Okay, great, any more questions?
Is there any possibility to stop or even reverse this corroborating system?
Yeah, I keep on explaining this, okay? They are the ones in power and so what has to happen is,
all of society has to collapse before society can regenerate, before society can rejuvenate,
but before society can collapse, they have a lot of tricks up their sleeves, okay? So for example,
they can create civil wars where the left and the right fight each other and they're left alone or
they can use AI to control you, right? AI is God, guys, listen to God, okay? Or they can fake an
alien invasion, okay? Or they can send you to war, they can start all these pointless wars, okay?
But whatever it takes in order to maintain their privilege and their power, that's their mentality,
and that's how they got to where they are, okay? And that's how they lead to think.
Any more questions, guys?
Okay, Mr. Jiang, my question is, so I'm a 12th grader, so if you are in my shoe, like,
if you are in a 12th grader nowadays, what would you do? Like, are you still going to pursue for a
further education, a higher education, or are you going to just drop out?
Yeah, okay, that is a great question. So you guys are about to go to university, and as I told you
in this class, university is a complete ripoff, okay? All you're doing is you're paying for the
nice salaries and perks of these administrators at university. You're not even paying for the
professors, all right? You're paying for the administrators to have their nice lives.
And so what I would do is maybe not go to university. What I would do is focus on education,
on learning, by reading a lot of books, by asking a lot of questions and doing my own research,
by learning real skills, okay? So in a study like this, where the game is rigged,
going to university means that you'll just lose, okay? Maybe before, like 20, 30 years ago,
it was good to go to university because you might become a manager, but now all those slots
have been taken up by the elite and the children, okay? There's no space for you.
So what you can do in this context is to really start educating yourself in real knowledge,
all right? Reading books, meeting lots of different people, exploring the world, okay?
Like really develop real knowledge, okay? That's the best solution, all right? Any more questions?
Doesn't matter to the major. No, it does not matter to the major. It's all a scam.
Okay. Yeah, okay. It's all a scam. Even for liberal arts.
It's all a scam, okay? Doesn't matter what university you go to, liberal arts,
Ivy League, state, it's all a scam. Doesn't matter what your major is, economics, psychology,
humanities, computer science, it's all a scam, okay? The system exists so that the managers,
administrators can continue to feed off the system, all right? Okay guys, so we'll continue
this next week, okay? All right, but thank you for the questions.
