Good morning. So today we do Greek civilization. We are focusing on Homer,
who wrote The Iliad and The Odyssey. A couple years ago, I taught the great
books. So we read the Bible, Dante, Paradise Lost, The Iliad, and The Odyssey.
And believe it or not, the student's favorite book was The Iliad. And this was
written maybe 3,000 years ago by this Greek man living in a different time,
different culture. Even today, Chinese teenagers think he's wonderful, okay? So
Homer is, I believe, the big bang of Greek civilization. Alright, so let us
summarize where we are, okay? Let's review where we are, okay? So remember that in
the beginning, you have this city emerge in a major trade route, and it occupies a
major river. And over time, what will happen is that as the city expands, it will
create colonies along the river. And this will create warfare among the city
states because they're trying to control trade, okay? And this leads to what we
call open cooperative competition. And as I keep on saying, this is a system that
will lead to tremendous innovation, okay? And this is what happened in China, in
Mesopotamia, and in Egypt. But then over time, what happened is that an empire
will emerge, and this will create a bureaucracy, okay? The bureaucracy has
three major characteristics. The first is centralization. And because of centralization, you
now have a monopoly, and so you have a decrease in competition, which means that
society is no longer innovative, okay? Second is you have censorship, meaning
that people are no longer free to express what they want. All information is
centralized. The third is writing as propaganda. So writing is a system of
control as opposed to a system of knowledge creation or self-expression, okay?
So these are the three characteristics of an empire. And this is true for all
empires. This is true for Mycenaean Greece. So Mycenaean Greece is the empire
that ruled the Aegean Sea during the Bronze Age. What's interesting though is
when the Bronze Age collapsed, this system allowed for massive innovation,
which gave us the Greeks, okay? So let me explain why. First of all, you now have
centralization, but you now have something called the polis. So you
basically have a return to the system of open warfare. The polis means city-state
in Greek, and it gives us the word politics. Why? Because these polises
always start war with each other, always. And because every citizen had to risk his
life in a war, every citizen had the right to speak, okay? So before every
decision was made, all the citizens could debate. And so as a citizen, you were
required to speak in front of others. And as a result, you, even though you could
be a farmer, you had to educate yourself. You had to gain knowledge. You had to
learn the art of speaking, what we call rhetoric. And this allowed for massive
education and innovation in Greece. The polis, because everyone had to learn, they
had to change the writing system from one of propaganda to one of knowledge
seeking. So they changed the writing system. So during the Mycenaean Age, the
writing system is called Linear B. And Linear B is a hard system to learn, but
that's the point. They want the writing system to be hard to learn because then
only the elite can learn it. And that's what differentiates the elite from the
people, right? But now that everyone has to learn, you need a more efficient
writing system. And so they incorporated, they created a new system called the
alphabet, which is the same system we use today because it's so effective, okay?
So let me explain what the alphabet is. All right, so in the beginning, when we first
start to write, we had pictograms, okay? So this is the Sun, this is the Moon, okay?
Sun and Moon. As you can see, these are just pictures of words, okay? That's a
first step. But then people realize, you know what, we actually don't have to
write down, we actually don't have to draw down, draw out the pictures. We can just
use symbols, okay? So now use symbols like maybe an O and this, okay? This is now
becomes a Sun, Moon. And then people realize, you know what, there are actually a
lot of words we cannot draw out. But if we make the symbol representing a sound
as opposed to an idea, that'd be a lot more efficient, right? And so now you can
create new words. This is the word now for monsoon. Because all you're doing is
you're adding two sounds together, okay? And this is what I call a syllabary, okay?
So linear B was a syllabary. And the Chinese system is what I call an
ideograph. Ideograph, okay? So it's not representing sounds, it's representing
ideas, all right? And then people realize, you know what, for it to be most efficient,
to be most flexible, to be most versatile, we can just have the symbol represent a
part of a sound, okay? So rather than a complete sound, just a part of a sound. So
now this becomes M, this becomes S, okay? And so you now get the word sum. And this
is where we get alphabet from. What they did was they added vowels to the system,
okay? And this is the most efficient writing system in the world. It's really
easy to learn, as you know, for Mingle's class, as opposed to Chinese, which is
very hard to learn, okay? So now you have the alphabet, which increases literacy
and learning throughout the Greek world. For entertainment, what they did was
they invited Barthes, poets, to come and give recitals to talk about the legends
of the past. And this gave rise to the most famous poet of that time,
named Homer. And we will discuss Homer today, okay? And so in a centralized
system, Homer could not have arisen because Homer would have been a
propagandist. But now in this decentralized system, where everyone is
looking for entertainment, for knowledge, Homer can arise. And Homer will be the
greatest poet of Greek civilization, and he's considered to be the father of Greek
civilization, okay? So we will discuss Homer today. And Homer is famous because
he wrote two books, The Iliad and The Odyssey. Actually, he didn't write the
books. He recited the poetry, and then his students wrote it down, because he
himself was illiterate. And we also think he was blind, okay? So The Iliad and The
Odyssey are about the Trojan War, okay? So let me explain to you what the Trojan
War is. Okay, so from last class, you know that Troy was the center of the world. It
was the heart and center of global trade, and that's why pirates kept on
raiding Troy, okay? Now, as you also know, facts become stories, and stories become
exaggerated over time. And that's what gave us the legend of the Trojan War, okay?
So let's go over the basic outline. So there are the gods up in Mount
Olympus. The king god, of course, is Zeus. And the three goddesses are Hera, who is
the queen god. They are Athena, the goddess of wisdom, and Aphrodite, who is
the goddess of love, okay? Hera is the queen, the mother, Athena and Aphrodite are
the daughter of Zeus. So it's one big family. One day, they discover a golden
apple on Mount Olympus, and the golden apple says, to the most beautiful in the
world. So, of course, all three believe it must be mine. And so they fight and
they fight and they fight. And Zeus is going crazy because they won't stop
fighting. So Zeus has an idea. He will have a contest, and in this contest, the
golden apple will be awarded to one with three, okay? But now he needs to find
someone stupid enough to be the judge. And he finds this person named Paris. And
Paris is a prince of Troy. And so Paris meets the three goddesses and, of course,
each goddess is trying to bribe Paris. So Paris says, Paris, if you pick me, I will
give you a kingdom. I will make you a king. And Paris is like, that's a really
attractive offer, okay? Then Athena says, hey, if you pick me, I will give you all
the wisdom in the world. You will be the wisest man in the world. And Paris is like,
okay, that sounds cool, sure. And Aphrodite says, I'm gonna give you the
hottest girl in the world. And Paris is like, yes, that's what I want, man, okay? So
he marries Helen. This may sound strange to you, like, why would you give up power
and wisdom for, you know, sex? And so I'll tell my wife about this, because I didn't
understand Paris' choice, right? And she said, of course you pick Helen, because
what matters to guys is status, face, right? You're a king, but there are lots
of other kings. You have wisdom, but like, who knows you have wisdom, right? But hey,
if you walk around the world with like the hottest girl in the world, you feel
good about yourself, okay? So of course you pick Helen. So there you go, my wife
knows more than I do, all right? But anyway, so now there's a problem, because
now Hera and Athena are pissed off, and they want revenge. In fact, they're so
pissed off, they decide they're gonna destroy not just Paris, but the entire Trojan
people, okay? They're gonna wipe out Troy from the face of the earth. They want
revenge. Another problem is, at this time, Helen is married to Menelaus, who is the
king of Sparta, and his brother is Agamemnon, who is the king of Argos, and
Sparta and Argos are the two most powerful places in Greece. So Agamemnon
is the king of kings, he is the king of Mycenaean Greece, and so they organize
this huge army to attack Troy to retrieve Helen, okay? And this will go on
for ten years, this battle in Troy, and this will give rise to many legends that
Homer will use to entertain the Greek people after the fall of the Mycenaean
Empire. Two of the most famous heroes of this time, and there were like hundreds,
okay, are Achilles and Odysseus. Odysseus is known for being the wisest of the
Greeks, the greatest strategist. Achilles is known for being the bravest warrior,
Odysseus will come up with the idea of the Trojan horse, which is what ends the war,
because, as you know, what will happen is the Greeks will sneak inside a horse, a
wooden horse, pretend that it's a gift to the Trojans. The Trojans will take the
horse inside the city, the Greeks will sneak out at night and kill everyone, okay?
Alright, so that's the story of the Trojan War. What Homer will do is he will take
this epic, okay, this legend, and turn it into a great story. He does not tell the
whole story, he only tells a part of the story. He tells a story of the battle
between Achilles and Agamemnon, okay? So let's go over the plot of the Iliad.
Alright, so the story begins like this. Agamemnon has arrived in Troy with his
entire army, but Troy is a walled city, and these guys are pirates, so they
cannot destroy Troy. So what they do is, well, they're pirates, so they go
and they go and raid other islands that are allies of Troy, and what they do is
they capture booty, which includes beautiful young girls, okay, and they have
these girls as sex slaves. Now the custom of war is that if a girl belongs to a
powerful family, that family can choose to ransom her back, and you have to give
her back, okay? Now it turns out that Agamemnon likes his girl, but she's
the daughter of a powerful priest, and the priest says, give me back my girl and
I'll give you a lot of money, and Agamemnon says, no, I like her, and I'm lonely, so
screw off. So this priest gets angry and prays to Apollo, and Apollo unleashes a
plague on the Greeks, and everyone's dying, okay? And so Achilles discovers
what's happened, and he confronts Agamemnon in a war council, and he says,
Agamemnon, you have to give the girl back, or else we're all gonna die here,
and Agamemnon says, fine, I will give her back, but only in the condition that I take
your girl, and of course Achilles is pissed off, he's like, that's not fair,
and Agamemnon's like, too bad I'm king, and so Achilles says, fine, but I will
never fight for you ever again. I'm gonna let the Trojans destroy you here, I'm
gonna, I'm the greatest warrior in the world, I'm gonna sit back, and I'm gonna let the Trojans
destroy you, okay? So after that meeting, Achilles goes to his mother, who's a
goddess, her name is Phaetus, and she's a river goddess, and Achilles says to
Phaetus, listen mother, could you help me out? Could you tell Zeus to help the
Trojans? The reason why is, I want the Greeks to lose so that they beg me to
save them. I came to Troy to be a hero, so let the Trojans win, and then I'll come
and save the Greeks, and I'll be a great hero, so that's what Phaetus does, and Hector,
who is the prince of Troy, okay, he's brother to Peres, he discovers that
Achilles is absent from the battlefield, so he leads the Trojans against the
Greeks, and they're destroying the Greeks, they're at the point where, sorry,
at the point where they've almost reached the Greek ships, and they want to
burn down the Greek ships, because if they do that, the Greeks cannot resupply
themselves, and they will all die in Troy, and so at this point, Odysseus and
the other Greeks say to Agamemnon, you know what, we need Achilles, please,
please, get Achilles back into the battlefield, and Agamemnon says, fine,
tell him this, tell him I will give him my daughter in marriage, I will give him
all the treasure in the world if he comes and fights for us, so Odysseus and the
Greeks go to Achilles and says, please, please, please, help us, and Achilles says,
nope. Why? Because Agamemnon is not here. Where's Agamemnon at, man? I don't need his
daughter, I don't need all this money in the world, I'm gonna die anyway in battle,
so screw off, okay? So now, Achilles and Agamemnon are stuck, because Achilles
wants Agamemnon to apologize, but Agamemnon doesn't want to lose face, so there's a real
threat that the Trojans will destroy the entire Greek army, okay, and they're
about to reach the ships and burn down the ships, and Achilles is watching this,
and he's like, why aren't the Greeks coming and begging me again, okay? He wants the Greeks to
constantly beg him, so he can say no, and the Greeks are like, we know that, so
we're not gonna come, so then what happens is Achilles, he's so nervous that
he sends Patroclus, who is his lieutenant, to go talk to the Greeks and say, hey man,
what's going on? Do you need Achilles' help? And the Greeks say to him, Patroclus,
we know Achilles, he's got this terrible temper, he's not gonna come save us, but maybe
you can save us, Patroclus, and Patroclus says, yes, I can be the hero now, so he runs back to Achilles
and says, Achilles, you asshole, we're all gonna die here, let me go fight, and Achilles is like,
fine, you can go fight, but only in the condition that you just save the ships and you do not push
the Trojans back to Troy, okay? That's my glory, do not steal my glory, so of course what Patroclus
does is, he tries to win all the glory for himself, he forces a duel between himself and Hector,
and Hector kills Patroclus, now Achilles is pissed off, and Achilles is like, screw this,
I'm gonna go kill Hector, okay? So now, Agamemnon and Achilles are best friends because they both
want to kill Hector, Achilles duels Hector, kills him, and he is now the greatest warrior in the
world, he's proven himself to be the greatest hero in the world, he saved the Greeks, he's killed
Hector, he's avenged his friend Patroclus, he should be the happiest man in the world, right?
And this is Aginas Homer, he now falls into a deep depression, he mutilates Hector's body,
he ties Hector's body to his chariot and rides around the city of Troy, and all the Trojans are
screaming in horror, the gods are like, this is disgusting man, the Greeks are like, no man,
this is a war crime, we don't want to get involved, okay? Achilles is going crazy, he can't sleep,
he can't eat, all he can do is mutilate Hector's body, alright? So now the gods are watching this
and saying, you know what, we shouldn't allow this because this is a war crime and Hector was
always a good subject, so let's broker a peace between Achilles and Priam, who is the father
of Hector, okay? Because in this world, it's important to bury the dead, because only by
burying the dead can they find eternal peace, okay? So Priam wants his body back, so Priam
himself cannot sleep and both Achilles and Priam agree to this deal. The gods send Priam into
Achilles' tent and Achilles is busy, okay? Achilles is distracted and Priam is sitting next to him,
and at this point, what Priam can do is take a dagger and stab Achilles in the neck and avenge
his son, right? What he does instead is he kneels down before Achilles and kisses his hand. He
submits himself before Achilles and Achilles is so awed by this that he recognizes that Priam is the
greater hero, that Priam has more courage than he does, and now Achilles submits to Priam and the
two forgive each other and weep together, and this is how the Iliad ends, okay? This is a story that
tells us that the real battlefield is not out there in the shores of Troy. The real battle is
inside our human heart, okay? Why does Achilles fall into depression? Because he himself knows
he's the one guilty for killing a Patroclus. Maybe it was Hector who killed Patroclus, but it was
Achilles who made it possible. Why? Because number one, Achilles didn't have to get into a stupid
battle, okay? Number two is when the Greeks came to beg, Achilles could have said yes, okay? And
then number three is Achilles did not have to send Patroclus into battle, so Achilles know in his
heart that he was guilty, and as such he could not forgive himself, and so he fell into depression,
and so Priam, by forgiving Achilles, allowed Achilles to forgive himself, okay? So it's a
problem of forgiveness, and this is the hardest problem in human society. How do you forgive those
who've done wrong to you, and how do you forgive yourself for doing wrong unto others? This is the
hardest problem in human society. If you can solve this problem, you can now create a great
civilization. That's what Homer did, okay? Homer showed us that this is the greatest problem in
the human heart, and when we forgive each other, we make the world anew. We rejuvenate the world.
We change the world from one of destruction into one of vitality, okay? Priam, by sacrificing
himself, by having the courage to forgive Achilles, changed the destiny of himself and his son,
Hector, because Achilles gave Hector back and told Priam, not only will I give your son back,
but I will make sure that you have enough time to ensure a proper funeral for Hector. Achilles
himself will ensure the Greeks will not attack Troy during the funeral, okay? And that's the
beauty and power of the Iliad. It is the most shocking ending ever. It's the most beautiful,
the most poignant, the most tragic ending ever. Even today, we cannot match it. So the question
now is, how is it that Homer and the Greeks had such wisdom, and today we don't? And the answer
is, their minds were different back then than they are today, okay? So let me explain why.
Okay, so you know from psychology that we have two hemispheres in the brain, okay? A right hemisphere
and a left hemisphere. The right hemisphere is a creative, emotional, caring hemisphere. The left
is the logical, analytical, utilitarian hemisphere, okay? So right does art, maybe left does math,
okay? We know this from simple psychology. Now, there's an American psychologist named Julian
Jaynes, and he proposes a really interesting theory. His theory is, actually what's happening is,
the right hemisphere is receiving information from the universe, by braces from the universe,
and the left hemisphere is interpreting this information into reality, okay?
All right, so remember we discussed Kant. What does Immanuel Kant say? Immanuel Kant says that
there are two realities, the nomina, the world, the things in themselves, and the phenomena,
the things to us, okay? So what happens is that our brain interacts with the nomina,
and then filters it back into the phenomena, okay? And it uses a filter, time and space,
in order to perceive things, okay? Hegel says that this nomina is the
geist, okay? The universe. And as we discussed, the universe are just vibrations, okay?
Vibrations. And so, if you apply all this to this theory, what's happening is, our right brain is
receiving these vibrations, and then our left brain is just transforming these vibrations into
everyday reality, okay? The question then is, how do we interpret these vibrations? Well, for most of
human history, we've interpreted them as just gods and spirits, okay? And even though it's
unfactual, it is truthful in that it allows us to better understand the universe, it allows us to
understand ourselves, okay? By embracing this model of the brain, we have access to wisdom,
okay? The wisdom of Homer and the Greeks. And that's why, back then, the Greeks are much more
creative and wise than we are today, okay? Does that make sense? Because what we've done today is,
we've shut off this part by saying, nope, all that matters is science, logic, and materialism,
okay? So, we've shut down the right brain,
and we only use the left brain today. That's why we are less creative,
right? So, that's the argument I will make to you today. All right, let's continue.
All right, the great big bang, the beginning of Greek civilization. All right, so this is Julian
James, okay? And he wrote a book called, The Origin of Cautionous in the Breakdown of the
Bicameral Brain, okay? The bicameral mind is just a left and right hemisphere, and these two work
together. The right is the receiver of the universe, the left is the interpreter of the universe.
All right, so he gives an example of this, okay? Why is it that, in ancient times, when kings died,
we buried them with lots and lots of gifts? We buried them as though they were still alive.
And the answer is, from our perspective, they were still alive, okay? The burial of the important
dead as if they still lived is common to almost all these ancient cultures whose architecture we
have just looked at. This practice has no clear explanation except that their voices were still
being heard by the living and were perhaps demanding such accommodation. These dead kings
popped up on stones whose voices were hallucinated by the living with the first gods, okay? Does that
make sense to you? We live in a world where we're using both our left and right hemispheres, and as
such, we saw spirits, deities, gods all around us, okay? We interacted with them, and they gave us both
inspiration as well as motivation, okay? And so, this is a Viking ship burial where a king is being
buried with ship and his horses as though he was still alive, okay? Because from their perspective,
he's still alive. He's still able to give us his wisdom. This is the cult of the skull, which is
what we found in most Neolithic cultures, okay? The earliest agricultural societies. Why? Because
they practiced ancestral worship, and they believed that these skulls were living, and they could help
you access the dead in the spirit world and draw wisdom and inspiration from them.
This is a book, The Cossack Serpent, by Jeremy Narby, okay? And he tells us that, listen, if you
just do some basic research, this understanding of the universe where our right brain receives
spirits and left brain interprets it in reality, it makes a lot of sense, okay? Because all the
entire universe is its self-consciousness, okay? It's all mine, and matter is just what we perceive.
I began my investigation with the enigma of plant communication, okay? Plants are able to communicate
with each other. We know that scientifically. I went to accept the idea that hallucinations could
be a source of verifiable information, okay? So if you feel as though a spirit is talking to you,
maybe the spirit really is talking to you. And I end up with a hypothesis suggesting that a human
mind can communicate and defocalize consciousness with a global network of DNA-based life. All this
contradicts principles of Western knowledge, okay? So all the entire universe is consciousness.
Plants have it, animals have it, we have it, and therefore, we open our minds, we're able to
communicate with the entire universe and draw insight. All right, and he goes on. Scientists
know this, and our greatest discoveries came from scientists who embraced the consciousness of the
universe. Many of scientists' central ideas seem to come from beyond the limits of rationalism.
Rene Descartes dreams of an angel who explains the basic principles of materialistic rationalism to
him. Albert Einstein daydreams in a tram approaching another and conceives the theory of relativity.
James Watson scribbles on a newspaper in a train, then rides his bicycle to reach the conviction
that DNA has the form of a double helix, okay? So it's almost as though a spirit is telling the
secrets of the universe to the scientists. So, and just ask yourself these questions,
and you will understand that maybe the universe is consciousness, right? So these questions are
sometimes you think of someone and then boom, that person calls you. Is that strange? Okay,
has that ever happened to you? Do you feel as though you're being watched all the time? Do you
feel as though you're an actor on a stage? Do you sometimes feel you're compelled to act as though
something has in control of your body, okay? Possession. Why do certain ideas pop in your
head all of a sudden? Do you sometimes feel as though something planted an idea into you?
What if you have dreams? Where do dreams come from? What do dreams mean? Do you sometimes feel as
though you know what someone else is thinking, okay? Is it possible you're sitting with a friend
and you know exactly what your friend is thinking, even though you're not talking? Do you think
sometimes that you're having a conversation with a friend inside your head, okay? So your friend is
not there, but you're having a conversation with your friend. Do you feel as though you have a
guardian angel? Okay, I'm sure, you know, you're too shy to say this, but I'm sure that you feel as
though there is a spirit world, right? Okay, these were not mysteries and questions before because
everyone assumed we lived alongside spirits, angels, and demons, okay? Today we ask these questions.
Before they didn't ask these questions because everyone just assumed that, yeah, of course,
we live alongside angels and demons and that's why we are who we are.
Okay, so let's go to the Iliad, okay? And the Iliad shows us how the brain worked at that time.
A brain that was both materialistic and spiritual. A brain that understood that we lived in different
dimensions, okay? And the gods had more control over us and the gods represented our emotions
and the workings of nature, okay? The Iliad. Now this is a translation by Robert Fagels.
So let's, at the very beginning of the Iliad, okay, Homer says this,
Rage, goddess, signal of rage of Pileas and Achilles, murderers, doom that caused Achaeans countless
losses, hurling down to the house of death so many sturdy souls, great fighters' souls,
but made their bodies carrion, feast for the dogs and birds, and the world of Zeus was moving
towards its end. Begin, Muse, when the two first broke in clash, Agamemnon, Lord of the Men,
and Brun Achilles, okay? So the first thing that Homer says is, please inspire me, Muse, okay? So
what he's doing is not creating, what he's doing is channeling, he's drawing inspiration from the
gods, okay? When he's speaking to people, he's saying, I am here as a messenger of the gods.
This information is from the gods themselves. All right, so this is the fatal meeting, or sorry,
not the fatal meeting, the clash between Agamemnon and Achilles, the first meeting that starts off
the Iliad. So Agamemnon says to Achilles, give me your slave girl and get out of here, okay?
And Achilles says, screw you, I'm never gonna fight for you again. But now Achilles is pissed
off. He wants to kill Agamemnon, okay? Agamemnon broke off and anguished gripped Achilles. The heart
in his rugged chest was pounding, torn. Should he draw the long sharp sword slung at his hip,
thrust through the ranks and kill Agamemnon now, or check his rage and beat his fury down,
okay? So he can't control himself, okay? Rage has overtaken him. He wants to like step forward and
just kill Agamemnon. As his raging spirit veered back and forth, just as he drew his huge blade
from his sheath, down from the vaulting heavens swept Athena. Athena's here now, okay, before
Achilles. The white-armed goddess Hera sped her down. Hera loved both men and cared for both alike.
Rearing behind him, Peles sees his fury here. Only Achilles saw her, none of the other fighters.
Struck with wonder, he sprung around. He knew her at once, okay? So Achilles is a hallucinating
Athena. No one else can see her, okay? Peles Athena, the terrible blazing of those eyes,
and his winged words went flying. Why? Why now? Child of Zeus, with a shield of thunder, why come
now? To witness the outrage Agamemnon just committed? I tell you this, and so help me,
it's the truth. He'll soon pay for his arrogance with his life. So he really wants to kill Agamemnon.
Her gray eyes clear, the goddess Athena answered. Down from the skies I come to check your rage.
If only you will yield. The white-armed goddess Hera spread me down. She loves you both. She cares
for you both alike. Stop this fighting now. Don't lay hand to sword. Lash him with threats of the
price that he will face. I tell you this, I know it. It is the truth. One day glittering gifts will
lie before you three times over to pay for all his outrage. Hold back now. Obey us both, okay?
So Achilles wants to kill Agamemnon, but now he's being possessed by Athena, okay? And Athena says,
stop. So she urged, and the swift runner complied at once. I must, when the two of you had down
commands, goddess, a man submits, though his heart breaks with fury. Better for him by far.
The man who obeys the gods, they're quick to hear his prayers. And with that, Achilles stayed his
burly hand on a silver hilt and slid the huge blade back on his sheath. He would not fight the
orders of Athena, okay? So again, this is not factual. Athena doesn't really exist, but it's
truthful in that it gives us insight into how the human brain and human emotions work, okay?
Now what I'm going to do now is I'm going to write this again in modern prose to show you the
difference, okay? Okay, so this is what I wrote myself. It's bad writing, it's modern prose,
but you're able to compare and contrast, okay? I don't need you, get out of my sight, wrote
Agamemnon. He spat on the ground. Achilles' blood boiled and he reached for the hilt of his sword.
He saw all eyes stare at him and he stayed focused on Agamemnon. He counted the seconds and the steps
it would take for him to sprint forward and strike him down. His feet grew heavy and his legs grew
wobbly. He could not move. He felt the thumping of his heart. Achilles snapped around and walked
out of the room. He saw all eyes focus on him, okay? So this is factual, but it's not truthful,
you understand? It doesn't give us insight into why this is happening. So the Iliad
is truthful, but not factual. Modern prose is factual, but not truthful.
So now, as I said, Achilles refused to fight. The Greeks are losing the war, and so the Greeks beg
Achilles to come fight. Achilles says no, and he sends Portroclas to figure out what's going on.
And Portroclas comes back and says, let me fight Achilles, okay? And at this point, Achilles should
just be like, we'll fight together, or don't go if it's Portroclas, okay? And then he says,
don't go if it's Portroclas, it's too dangerous. Instead, he says this.
So he pleaded, lost in his own great innocence, condemned to beg for his own death and brutal
doom, okay? He is Portroclas. And move now to his death, the famous runner cried, no, no, my Prince
Portroclas, what are you saying? Prophecies? None that touch me, none I know of. No doom my
noble mother revealed to me from Zeus. Just this terrible pain that wounds me to the quick. When
one man attempts to plunder a man his equal, to commandeer a prize exulting so in his own power.
That's a pain that wounds me, suffering such humiliation. That girl, the sons of Achaea,
picked her as my prize, and I sacked her at Wall City, one of my spear, but right from my grasp,
he tears her, my name is Achaemenon, that son of Atreus, treating me like some vagabond, some
outcast stripped of all my rights. So the Greek army is about to destroy, and Achilles is concerned
about his own pride, okay? He's a very selfish person. Achaemenon stole his girlfriend, and he's
pissed. Enough, let bygones be bygones now. Done is done. How on earth can a man rage on forever?
Still by God I said I would not relax my anger, not till the Christ incarnate reached my own ships.
So you, you shot my splendid armor on your back, you lead our butter-hungry meridians into action.
And now, in fact, the black cloud of the Trojans blasts down on the ships with full gale force,
our backs to breaking surf, but clinging still to a cramped strip of land, the archives lost.
The whole city of Troy comes trampling down on us, tearing wild. Why? They cannot see the brown
my helmet flashed before their eyes, or they'll soon run for their lives and choke the torn
beds of the field with all their corpse, if only the mighty Achaemenon met me with respect, okay?
So the Trojans are attacking them because he's not in the battlefield. But if he's,
if he were in the battlefield, the Trojans would just run away, okay?
Now, as it is, they're fighting around our camp. No spear rages now in the hand of Thymides,
keen to save the archives from disaster. I can't even hear the battle cry of Achaemenon
break from his hated skull, but his man-killing Hector calling his Trojans on, his war cries
crashing around me. Savage cries of his Trojans sweeping the whole plain. Victors bring the
archived armies to their knees. Even so, protarchalists, fight disaster off the ships. Fleeing yourself
as Trojans' full force before they gut our holes with leaping fire and tear away the beloved day
of our return. But take this command to heart. Obey to the end. You can win great honor, great
glory for me in the eyes of all the archived ranks, and they, they'll send her back, my live
and lovely girl, and top it off with troves of glittering gifts. Once you have whipped the enemy
from the fleet, you must come back, protarchalists. Even if Zeus, the funding lord of Hera, lets you
seize your glory, you must not burn for war against these Trojans, madmen lusting for battle. Now,
about me, you will only make my glory that much less, okay? Me, me, me. All Achilles cares about
is me, protarchalists. You can go into battle, but don't win too much glory. Do not outshine me, okay?
And because he says this, what does protarchalists do? He tries to win all the glory for himself.
He engages in the duel of Hector, and it costs him his life, okay? So it's Achilles' fault this is
happening, and he knows it. All right, so the psychology here is just so insightful, so deep,
so striking, so let's use an analogy to understand the psychology, okay?
Let's pretend John and Jill are boyfriend girlfriend, but they have a fight, like boyfriend
and girlfriend do, and they break up, okay? But they want, they long for each other, but they don't
want to apologize to each other, okay? So Jill tells her best friend Jane to talk to John to try
to get him to apologize, all right? And then Jane goes and talks to John, and John says,
you know what, I've had it with Jill, I might rather date you, because you're more beautiful,
and you're more, you know, reasonable. And then Jane's really excited because Jill is prettier
than she is, right? So she runs back to Jill and says, hey, John asked me to go on a date,
maybe I can use the opportunity to convince him to apologize. And then Jill says, okay, go date him,
but what do you do? Don't kiss him. So what does Jill do, right? So this is reverse psychology,
right? Okay? So Jill knows that if she says this, Jane's going to kiss John.
And Achilles knows that if he tells Patroclus, don't win too much glory,
Patroclus is going to win a lot of glory, right? And so what happens, of course, is that Patroclus
dies and Achilles can now enter the battlefield and win all the glory for himself.
And that's what happens, okay? He kills Hector, he saves the Greeks, but then he goes crazy. What
he does is he ties Hector to his chariot and he starts riding around the walls of Troy. It is a
war crime. It's disgusting, it's hideous. The Trojans are going crazy, but the Greeks are like,
we don't want this, man. The gods are like, what the hell is going on?
Okay? So this is just shocking. It's a mutilation, it's torture.
All right, so now we move to the end of the Iliad. And at this point, Priam, the king,
cannot sleep because his son, Hector, is being mutilated by Achilles. Achilles can't sleep
because he can't forgive himself for the death of Patroclus. And so he takes it out on Hector.
The gods are watching this and they're kind of disgusted.
He cannot sleep, he's depressed, okay? He is wrapped with self-guilt. He cannot forgive himself
for what has happened.
And so he kept on raging, shaming noble Hector, but the gods in bliss looked down and pitied
Priam's son. They kept on urging the sharp-eyed giant killer Hermes to go and steal the body,
a plan that pleased them all, but not Hera, Poseidon, or the girl with blazing eyes. They
clung to their deathless hate of sacred Troy, Prime and Prime's people, just as they had at
first when Paris, in all his madness, launched the war. He offended Athena and Hera, both goddesses.
But Zeus, who marshaled the storm clouds, warned his queen,
now, Hera, don't fly into such a rage at fellow gods. These two can never attain the same degree
of honor. Still, the immortals loved Prince Hector dearly, best of all the mortals born in Troy,
so I loved him at least. He never sinned with gifts to please my heart. Never once did my altar
lack in its share of victims. Winecaps tipped and the deep smoky savior. These are the gifts
we claim. These are our rights. But as for still and courageous Hector's body, we must abandon the
idea, not a chance in the world, behind Achilles' back. For Phaedas is always there, his mother
always hovering near him, night and day. So, would one of you gods call Phaedas to my presence,
so I can declare to her my solemn, sound decree? Achilles must receive a ransom from Queen Pyam.
Achilles must give Hector's body back. Does that make sense? So the gods are fighting over what to
do, and then Zeus says, you know what, let's just book a peace between Achilles and Pyam. So Prime
agrees to ransom back Hector's body, and Achilles agrees. Okay, so again, we can write this in modern
prose. We can eliminate the gods, but what you'll see is that it's not as powerful. It's not as
intriguing, not as truthful. Prime cannot sleep and toss in his bed. His wife and his children
come one by one to console the weeping king, but to no avail. His servants try different sleeping
potions, and one by one, they fail. In the middle of the night, he screams at the moon and tears at
his graying hair. Prime aches for Hector and feels guilt and remorse for failing his son.
Children spies watch Achilles drag Hector's body day and night. They take turns spying, and they know
that Achilles cannot sleep. They report this news to Prime, and this gives him hope. He sends an
emissary to the Greek camp, and Achilles agrees that it is Prime's right to ransom back his son,
as is the custom of war. Even after the rage of Achilles, Agamemnon sends a servant to talk
of Achilles. Achilles does not hear Prime's offer, but he nods his head anyway. Okay, so it's less
powerful, it's less truthful, it's less interesting. Okay, all right, now comes the most powerful
part of the Iliad. Okay, this is actually when Prime and Achilles meet for the first time,
and so what happens is that Prime is snuck into the tent by Hermes, and the majestic king of Troy
slips past the rest and kneeling down beside Achilles, claps his knees and kisses his hands,
those terrible man-killing hands that had slaughtered Prime's many sons in battle.
So the king has the opportunity to kill Achilles, but chooses instead to kiss his hand and submit
before Achilles, and this submission destroys the pride of Achilles. Okay, it's an emotional
battle between Prime and Achilles, and Prime has won. Awesome, as when the group of madness
ceases one who murders a man in his own fatherland and flees abroad to foreign shores to a wealthy
noble host, and a sense of marvel runs through all who see him. So Achilles marveled beholding
majestic Priam. Okay, that's what Prime has done. Prime is like a fugitive who's wanted for murder.
He escaped, and he should be a slave, but somehow he's become wealthy. Okay, so by submitting himself
before Achilles, Prime has changed the destiny of the world. His man marveled too, training
startled glances, but Prime prayed his heart out to Achilles. Remember your own father, great god
like Achilles. As old as I am, past the threshold of deadly old age. Now doubt the countrymen round
about him, plague him now. With no one there to defend him, be the way disaster. No one, but at
least he hears you're still alive, and his old heart rejoices, hopes rising day by day to see his
beloved son come sending home from Troy. Those words stirred within Achilles a deep desire to
grieve for his own father. Taking the old man's hand, he gently moved him back, and overpowered
by memory, both men gave way to grieve. Prime wept freely for man killing Hector, probably
encroaching before Achilles' feet as Achilles wept for himself. This is the first time Achilles can
now cry. Okay, he cannot cry before. Now for his father, now for Patroclus once again, and they're
solving rows and fell throughout the house. They've forgiven each other. Why? Because they love their
people. Okay, so Prime saw Hector in the face of Achilles. Achilles saw his father in the face of
Priam, and because of their love for others, they found love for each other. So love is the unifying
force of the universe. Love is what allows us to forgive ourselves and forgive others. Okay, and
this is the tremendous insight of the Iliad. Okay, and to demonstrate to you how powerful this insight
is, let's run a scenario. Okay, let's do a thought experiment. Let's just say you're driving a car
with your wife and your child home from a restaurant. Okay, and you've had too much to drink,
and then you hit a car and your wife and your child died. Okay, that's the first scenario.
Second scenario is you're driving home and then a drunk driver hits you, killing your wife and your
child. It's not your fault. It's drunk driver's fault. Okay, the third scenario, you're arguing
with your wife and you're not really watching the road. Okay, then a drunk driver hits you and kills
your wife and your child. Okay, these are three different scenarios, right? Let me ask you a
question. In which scenario are you less likely to forgive the drunk driver? One, two, or three?
One, it's your fault. Two, it's his fault. Three, it's his fault, but it's also your fault.
Which one? It's number three, guys. Okay, why? Because you cannot forgive yourself first, right?
If you cannot forgive yourself, you can't forgive others. And guess what, guys? In real life,
it's always number three. It's almost never number one or number two. So, forgiveness is something
that we encounter every day, all right? Every day we make mistakes and because we can't forgive
ourselves, we can make even more and more mistakes. Okay, that's a problem of forgiveness,
and it's the deepest problem in human society. And so, what Lilia tells us is that the real
struggle is not for power. The real struggle is within our heart. The real struggle is between
ourselves. If we forgive ourselves, we can change the world, right? If we forgive others, we make
the world a better place. Because Priam forgave Achilles. Achilles was able to forgive himself,
and they made the world a better place, okay? That's the power of the human heart.
And this is what gives rise to Greek civilization, okay? The Greeks engaged in an oral tradition,
and in an oral tradition, they were constantly trying to figure out the mysteries of the human
heart, all right? So, this is Pericles giving his famous funeral oration. So, every day,
people are speaking because that's what a person does, speaks before others, all right?
The Greeks were known for their theater. This is the amphitheater in Athens. You can see,
it seats about 10,000 people, and this is what they do for fun. They stage a theater,
and everyone watches it, and the theater plays by Euripides, Ischeles, Sophocles,
are about the human heart, the mysteries of the human heart. So, every day, people are thinking
about what it means to be human, and that's why they have the greatest civilization in the world.
This is the Aigara, the marketplace, where people come together and just debate, they talk. So,
Sophocles was famous for being in the Aigara, the marketplace, and just finding people to debate.
This is the Symposia. The Symposia is a gathering of wealthy people, and what they do is,
they drink wine, and they talk about philosophy, love, death, what's the meaning of life, okay?
Now, the wine is interesting because they water down the wine, so it's not as strong, okay? And
they'll do this for the entire night. This is Socrates engaging in a symposium on love. That's
what they do for fun, guys. This is a trial of Socrates. So, if you're charged with a crime,
you face a trial, and there's 500 people, and you have to convince those 500 jurors why you're
guilty or why you're not guilty, okay? All right? So, this is an oral culture where every day,
people are talking with each other, and that's the source of their creativity. So,
oral culture where every day, people are talking with each other, and that's the source of their
creativity. And what they're talking about is the Iliad, the Odyssey. They're trying to figure out
what Homer meant, what Homer was trying to tell the world in his poetry.
This is Herodotus. So, even if you write, the first thing you do is, when you write, you will
recite your writings to everyone, so you understand what the reaction is, okay? Writing
comes from community. It comes from understanding the feelings of others, okay? Today, we just write
by ourselves, and that's why our writing is crap. All right. So, this is Anna Karina.
Consider the greatest novel of the modern period. It's written by Leo Toystoy,
and it's a really fun novel. I highly recommend it. It's a great book, okay? And it starts off
by saying, happy families are all alike. Every unhappy family is unhappy in its own way.
Everything was in confusion in the Oblensky's house. The wife had discovered that the husband
was carrying on an intrigue with a French girl, okay? So, it starts off with an affair.
What happened is that the husband's sister, Anna Karina, will come from St. Petersburg to try to
resolve the issue, but then she'll fall in love with another man, Count Ronsky,
and they have an affair together, okay? This affair destroys their families, and it ends
with Anna Karina's suicide, okay? Because what's happening is that she's demanding more and more
Count Ronsky, and he can't keep up. He's exhausted by the demands of Anna Karina. So, this is what
she says before she kills herself. My love keeps growing more passionate and egoistic, while his is
waning and waning, and that's why we're drifting apart. She went on musing, and there's no hope for
it. He has everything for me, and I want him more and more to give himself up to me entirely.
He wants more and more to get away from me. We walk to meet each other up to the time of our love,
and then we have been irrisibly drifting in different directions. There's no altering that.
He tells me I'm insanely jealous, and I've told myself that I am insanely jealous, but it's not
true. I'm not jealous, but I am unsatisfied. I don't have any meaning in my life, and I want this love
to give me meaning. It's almost like she's looking for God. We've killed God, and now she's looking
for God in affairs, in sex, in lust, and that's why she can't find it. So, what I'm going to do is,
I'm going to take this and translate it into homoic prose. Let's see how Homer wrote this. I'm not
Homer, but this is how he might have written it. Anna Karina went to the train station and sat on
the bench waiting for the train to come. Her thoughts are empty and her head low.
Where do you plan to go? Someone asked in the corner. That snapped Anna from her trance into
her horror. She saw herself, but it was not herself. She was older with gray hair and drooping eyes,
and Anna looked as though she had seen a ghost. So, she's hallucinating herself 20 years from now.
Who are you? Anna shouted in horror. What do you want? Where will you go? The older Anna asked.
Where's Wanski? Anna shouted. She looked around. The train station was empty.
You know where he is, the older Anna said, with a look of pity on her wrinkled face.
Anna got up and walked away. She was being followed. So, she knows that in time she'll
just all be alone. She sees her own future. Anna, where are you going? The older Anna asked.
Stop following me, Anna shouted back, picking up the pace. I am going to a place where you
can't find me. Don't do anything rash, the older Anna said, chasing after her. Leave me alone,
Anna shouted, and she ran and ran, screaming and screaming. She tripped and fell into the tracks
right in front of the train, and then she died. Okay? So, if you do it this way, it gives you more
insight into the human mind, the human psyche, right? And that's what we've forgotten. So,
what happens when we stop believing in the spiritual? What happens when we disconnect
from the right hemisphere of our brain? We clutter our brains with insignificant concerns,
pursuits, and details in search of significance. When we kill God, anything can be God, okay?
So, as I said, Anna Karina, with her fear, she's looking for God. She's looking for meaning.
And before, when we hallucinated, when we talked with the gods, we had meaning, we had wisdom,
we had significance, and now we've lost it. And the result is what we call modern literature,
which is completely another crap, by the way, okay? And we know because
this is Virginia Woolf to the Lighthouse, okay? It's considered one of the greatest novels
of the 20th century. It's not very good, all right? So, this is a woman talking to herself.
It's what we call stream of consciousness. There were the eternal problems, suffering, death,
the poor. There was always a woman dying of cancer, even here, and yet she had said to all these
children, you shall go through with it. To eight people, she had said relentlessly that, and the
bill for the greenhouse would be 50 pounds. For that reason, knowing what was before then, love
and ambition, and being wretched alone in dreary places, she had often the feeling, why must they
grow up and lose it all, okay? So, her mind is wandering and wandering, and she's concerned about
the grocery bills, she's concerned about the future, she's concerned about the past. There's
no discipline, there's no focus to any of her ideas, okay? And this is what we call stream of
consciousness, and it's the way we think today, okay? The reality is that we live in a world in
which God is dead, in which we are not allowed to imagine a spiritual world, a world in which we
only focus on the here and now, and as such, we live meaningless, insignificant lives, and as such,
our brains are just focused on things that don't matter, okay? And our brains become schizophrenic,
all right? Okay, does that make sense, guys? Yeah? Any questions? All right. Yeah.
I have a question about the concept about forgiveness that you just mentioned,
that if you can't forgive yourself, you can't forgive others. I think the example of this is
China and Japan, because China hates Japan because of the Japan invasion war, and after hearing this
call, I think China hates Japan so much, even until now, it is because that China cannot forgive
himself because he's too weak, and also just like the third situation that you just showed,
Japan invades and China is too weak to fight back, so China cannot forgive his weakness, so
he cannot forgive Japan. Yeah, that's a great analogy. I completely agree, yeah, because if
you're really strong and confident, you just focus on improving yourself. You don't think about other
people, yeah, okay? Any more questions, guys? But thank you for the comment, okay? All right, so last
thing I'm going to do is I'm going to read some YouTube comments. So I don't have time to read
YouTube comments, but my wife loves reading YouTube comments, and she sends me YouTube comments,
and it's basically my homework, okay? So if my wife sends it to me, I'd respond, all right? So
let's look at some YouTube comments from the last video. Weston Qatar says,
hey man, what about Africa? What about Egypt and African civilization? And, you know, I'm sure
that Africa, Egypt, Sudan are really, really interesting. I don't know enough about it to
comment on it, okay? So what I want to do is later on, I want to focus more on Africa, okay? I want
to go to Africa, and I want to learn more about content so I can comment more about
Africa. Like for me, teaching is a learning journey, okay? I teach to learn, okay? So this
YouTuber says, Bad Bentham says, I under-represent livestock in the economic system, and this is
absolutely true, okay? If you look at the steps, the currency is actually livestock. Cattle, sheep
are the main currency of the step people, and it's what allows the step people to fight great
wars, because when they go off in wars, they can bring their livestock with them, and therefore,
they don't have any logistical issues, okay? So this comment is absolutely right. Question.
So capital changes altruistic nature to uterian when hard-working motivation gets saturated.
Why are we only going in one direction that's getting saturated?
Yeah, so this is interesting. So we have two natures, an altruistic and uteritarian nature,
and what we've discovered is that if you break the balance and you become too uteritarian,
it's almost impossible to move it back, okay? And that's why societies collapse.
How similar is this series to civilization series? Okay, so the comment is that I'm using a lot of
content that I used before in civilization, and yeah, that is a fair criticism, and the reason why
is that what I'm trying to do is I'm trying to better understand history. So what I'm doing is
I'm trying to analyze history from different angles. So last year, when I taught civilization,
I was trying to just figure out how civilization work, and this year, what I'm trying to do is
trying to apply the idea of secret societies to the better understanding of civilization.
So I know some of the content is repeating itself, but the angle, the slant, the overt thesis has
changed, okay? And I'm going over a lot of this information in order to build a case of why we
have secret societies, all right? How do we manage to produce during these horrible times?
Same question I asked myself yesterday, okay? So the question is, what if children, when things
are getting worse and worse, and the answer is because children is what gives us hope.
Children is what gives us purpose. When you see that the world has collapsed or when you see the
world is in chaos, you have children because children give you hope. Children give you hope
because children give you the energy, the motivation, inspiration to fight for a better world,
okay? So I am probably the most pessimistic person on planet earth, okay? I think the entire world
is going to hell. I have three kids. I have three young kids, and the reason why is, well, first of
all, I love my kids. I love having children, but also my children fill me with hope and energy
and power to fight for a better world. I'm only doing this. I'm only teaching this class. I'm
only putting this on YouTube to build a legacy for my children. If it were not for my children,
I would honestly not be doing this. It's really hard work, okay? All right, so that is it for today.
Thank you, guys. We'll continue next week, okay?
