Okay, good morning class. So we have five more classes in a semester and the four
last classes are the most important. So what I will do this class is set up
the background and context for the last four classes. So what I want to do first
is review what we've learned so far. So we discussed the Roman Republic, the
Roman Republic, and it was essentially an oligarchy, okay? So oligarchy just means
rule by the few. So it's very much like Sparta, it is a war society. And at this
point in history, the fact that the Roman Republic was an oligarchy basically
that commanded it, okay? And these were called the patricians. It was actually to
the advantage of Rome, because at this time Rome was small. It was poor, it was
at war, okay? So in other words, even though there was nobility, they were not
that much better off than other people. And everyone knew each other, so they
were very open, energetic, and cohesive society. And so over time, they became the
most dominant society in the Mediterranean. They defeated Carthage, they
defeated the Greeks. But now that they're an empire, the fact that Rome is an
oligarchy is a huge problem, because now they are corrupt, unequal, and stagnant.
And one way that we know is Roman women just start to refuse to have children,
okay? So they were dying as a society. And at this point in history, what should
happen is that they should build an imperial bureaucracy, a centralized,
standardized system in order to better manage the empire. But they couldn't
really do that because of the oligarchy. The families, which now are about 50, okay?
They refused to give up power. So rather than a centralized bureaucracy, the Roman
Empire was in many ways a system in which different families had different
territories. And what this led to was constant civil war, okay? Civil war. And
remember, it started with Sulla, and then it went on to Julius Caesar. And after
Julius Caesar, Augustus Caesar became the first among equals. But he still
failed to set up the bureaucracy, okay? And so it kept on leading to war.
Eventually, what happened was that Constantine decided, this system doesn't
work, so what I need to do is I need to reinvent the Roman people. And you do
that by moving the capital from Rome to a new place he calls Constantinople, okay?
Which now becomes the Byzantine Empire. Okay? And the Byzantine Empire, now because
it's a new culture, it cannot become a bureaucracy. In fact, their official
language becomes Greek. It's a Greek bureaucracy, okay? And this is what we
call the Second Rome. At the same time, while this is happening, you have a
massive migration of the Steps people, okay? They're coming into Europe from
many different locations. Why is this happening? Because in China, the Han
dynasty is waging a war against the Steps, the Manic people, okay? The people
called the Xiongnu. Then, so they're forced westwards, which forces the other
Steps people to migrate into Europe and into Central Asia, okay? So these people
are called the Goths. And this is a huge problem for Rome, because their people
are not having children, they have all these massive migration coming in from
the Steps. And so what the Romans decided to do is divide and rule. And so
what this means is that a lot of them are absorbed into the army as
mercenaries and as soldiers in order to defend the border, in order to fight
these civil wars. Now, remember in the last class, we talked about the rise of the
Catholic Church, okay? And we discussed how the Catholic Church was in many ways
being supported by these noble families. Not all of them support the Catholic
Church, but some of them did. And those that did had a huge advantage, because
now what they can do is absorb these new migrants into the society, where they're
at the top and the migrants are at the bottom, okay? Then the question then is,
why would the migrants agree to this? The reason why is, in this society, it is very
egalitarian. And for war purposes, they would elect a war leader, okay? But with
this system, the Catholic Church system, this war leader cannot become a
nobility, okay? They can now join the 50 families to form a new nobility, okay?
Does that make sense, guys? All right. All right, so at this point in history, when
Constantine sets up the Byzantine Empire, now the Roman Empire is going to divide into two.
A western part, a western part, and an eastern part. And these two parts are
going to have very different faiths. The eastern part is still part of the Middle
East, okay? The Levant, Anatolia, Egypt, and so it is the wealthiest part of the
empire. And as such, it engages in wars with the Persian Empire, okay? And this
will define most of its history. Its capital, Kassanople, was designed to be
invincible. You cannot lay siege to it, you cannot conquer it. And as such, the Byzantine
Empire was stable. In fact, it lasted for about a thousand years, which is very,
very impressive, okay? And as I said, it's very wealthy, and so therefore, it's
really able to dominate the world through mainly trade and diplomacy, okay? So it
became an imperial bureaucracy. It fought wars, but usually used a lot of
mercenaries because it had a lot of wealth, alright? So that's the Eastern
Empire. And guess what, guys? This is very similar to China, okay? So think about
China when you think about the Byzantine Empire. They're not the same, but they're
very similar in how they organize their society. The Western Empire is very
different, because this is the poorest part of Europe. The other thing about this region
is that there are lots of natural barriers, and so you have like these
competing societies emerging, okay? Different cultures, different societies,
and they're protected by mountains, by forests, by rivers. So there's a lot of
diversity, there's a lot of diversity within the Western Empire. And so the
power that emerges is actually the Catholic Church. And as Western Europe
increases in power and Eastern Europe decreases in power, the Catholic Church
will increase in power as well, okay? How the Catholic Church come to dominate
Western Europe? Because the Catholic Church believes it is out of
history, okay? So you kings, you compete for who rules the earth, but we the
Catholic Church, we decide who goes to heaven, okay? So the Catholic Church
becomes a dominant power in Western Europe. In fact, you can say that they are
the empire now, but they are a spiritual empire, a divine empire that is out of
history and which speaks for God. And as such, they become a very powerful empire
as well, okay? And this leads to tremendous conflicts throughout Western
Europe. But there's a problem with the Catholic Church, and we discussed this last class,
with the Catholic Church, it's trying to control the divine spark. Remember, Jesus
came to tell us that this was a divine spark in us. And as long as we try to glow
this divine spark, we can be with God. And the Catholic Church says, no, no,
no, this divine spark, it is that of the devil, and we must imprison it, okay? And
this works most of the time, but now and then, you have religious leaders who are
rationed and said, no, no, no, the divine spark is within us. And so this leads to a
lot of conflict. And ultimately, the solution the Catholic Church proposes is
the idea of crusades, where warriors go and kill those who believe in the divine
spark. And then they set up a secret police called the Inquisition in order to
search for those who oppose the Catholic Church, okay? The Inquisition, the major
idea is, if you believe in the divine spark, you're not an evil person, you're a
stupid person, because you don't know better. So the idea of the Inquisition is to
educate you in the truth, which is the divine spark is that of Satan, that of the
devil, and therefore you must obey the Catholic Church. But if you insist on
defying the Catholic Church, then you are a heretic, and therefore you must burn at
the stake before you can pollute other people, okay? Now, imagine what would happen
is that as a conflict in Western Europe gets worse and worse, certain states will
break away from the control of the Catholic Church, and they will embrace a new
religion called Protestantism, okay? And this something we'll discuss next class.
Okay, so that's the history of Western Europe. Okay, so now I want to talk about
Constantine and the rise of the Byzantine Empire. So Constantine is, what he does,
that's very important, is that he makes Christianity the official religion of
Rome. So before Constantine, you had Christian emperors, but they did not make
Christianity the official religion, but he made Christianity the official religion, okay?
The problem though, we discussed this last class, is that Christianity, it's a
franchise model. So different churches teach different things, and so Constantine
was like, no, we can't have this debate. If we make this the official religion,
what we need to do is have one orthodoxy, a unified ideology, okay? All right, so at
this time in history, there are two major debates, or two major sources of
confusion. The first is what we call Christology. What this is, is the question of
what's the nature of Jesus? Remember, the story is that Jesus is in heaven, then he
comes to earth, Mary gives birth to Jesus, then Jesus preaches his message, the
gospel, then he is killed and he is resurrected, and then he returns to
heaven, okay? That's the official story of Christianity, but there are lots of
problems with this story, as you can imagine. If Jesus is divine, how did Mary
give birth to Jesus, right? If you're a human woman and you give birth to a God,
that means that you're God yourself, okay? All right, so who is Mary and what is
her power? The second question then is, is Jesus divine or is he human, okay? Because if he's
human, he dies, that's a sacrifice, right? But if you're divine, you can't die, so his
death and his resurrection doesn't make any sense, okay? So this is a problem
with Christology. Is Jesus human or is he divine? And there are different
interpretations, okay? The first interpretation is, Jesus is divine in
heaven, but he's human in the world, okay? Does that make sense? So yes, Mary gave
birth to Jesus, but she gave birth to the human Jesus and not the divine Jesus,
because you cannot give birth to the divine God, okay? And that's why his death
makes sense, because Jesus who died was the human Jesus, but once he died,
he was resurrected, then he went to heaven, okay? That's one explanation, that
Jesus is really human. Another explanation is, no, Jesus is divine, so Mary, the death
doesn't really matter, okay? He's just divine, okay? So both are possibilities.
What the church says officially is, Jesus is human and divine at the same time, okay?
This is the official ideology of the church. This makes no sense, guys, all
right? But that's what you're taught, and so there are a lot of course, people who
are like, this isn't a stupid idea, okay? And these people are called the
Nestorians, and they were persecuted by the Catholic Church, and so they went to
Persia, okay? They went to the Middle East, they went to Persia, they went to
Arabia, where they spread the message of Jesus, they taught Jesus as a human as
opposed to a God. They taught that Jesus was a messenger, okay? Which is what I
taught you, right? That he's really a messenger of the Monad, all right? So
does that make sense? Okay, now the second debate is actually even more confusing
than the first debate, okay? And it has to do with the nature of the three
powerful forces, right? The three gods. You have God, the ultimate God, and you have
Jesus, and you have the Holy Spirit. The Holy Spirit is God expressed in the
world, okay? So when you have a, when someone speaks to you, you think it's God,
it's actually not God, it's the Holy Spirit. All right, so now the question then is, what's
the relationship between these three? God, Jesus, and Holy Spirit. And again, there
are different explanations, and they kind of make sense, okay? So the first is
the idea of modalism. Modalism is the idea that Jesus and God and
Holy Spirit are just different modes of the same thing. They just change. So when
Jesus is in heaven, he's God, when Jesus comes to earth as a human, he sees Jesus,
and then when Jesus wants to communicate with us, he's the Holy Spirit, okay? So
remember, Paul talked to Jesus, but Paul didn't really talk to Jesus, Paul talked
to the Holy Spirit, okay? So it's the same force, but expressed differently, okay? That
makes sense, right? Second is the idea of partialism. Partialism is just the idea
that God, Jesus, the Holy Spirit, all part of the same divine force, okay? So think of an
ocean, right? The Pacific Ocean. The Pacific Ocean is huge, but there are different parts
to it, right? So that's the idea of partialism. That makes sense, too, right? Okay? And the third idea is the
idea of Arianism. Arianism. And Arianism is just the idea that God came first,
and therefore, and then afterwards, he created Jesus. So in other words, Jesus is
God, but he's second to the real God, okay? That makes sense as well, right? Now,
there are problems of all three, okay? The first problem in vandalism is, if you read the Bible,
Jesus talks to God, Jesus talks to the Holy Spirit, that's kind of confusing, because why would
Jesus talk to himself, okay? So there's a lot of inconsistencies in the Bible, okay? So this doesn't
really work. Partialism doesn't work either, because you think about it, if God, Jesus,
and Holy Spirit are part of a divine aspect, then that divine aspect should be God, right?
Not these three, okay? This doesn't really make sense. And Arianism doesn't really make sense,
because the entire point of Christianity is to see that Jesus is God, right? We worship Jesus,
not God. So if you're saying that God's superior, why shouldn't we worship God instead of Jesus,
okay? So this is problematic as well. So what Constantine did was, he organized all the bishops
of the different churches to come to Nicaea, it's called the Council of Nicaea, okay? In order to
come up with a solution to this problem. And this solution is actually even more problematic than
these three, okay? It's called the Holy Trinity. So let's go over the Holy Trinity. What the Holy
Trinity says is this, God, Jesus, and the Holy Spirit, they are separate, okay? But they are equal.
They are separate, but they're part of the same thing, okay? They're both separate,
and they are equal to each other, okay? Now, if you think about it, it makes actually no
sense whatsoever. The only solution to this problem is that this Holy Trinity is both
nothing and everything at the same time. It becomes reality unto itself, okay? And the only
way to understand this is to accept this as a reality, right? So I know this is confusing,
but think of the idea of money, right? Okay, so the idea of money is both nothing and everything.
Money is nothing, but it can be everything at the same time as wealth, because it symbolizes
wealth. Does that make sense? So none of this actually makes any sense, and the only way that
it makes sense is if you force it to make sense, if you just memorize it. So think of math class,
okay? Guys, I'm not sure if you appreciate this, but the entire point of math class is to make
you stupid, okay? Why? Because it is impossible for you to reason using mathematics, because
mathematics doesn't really apply to the world. So the only thing that you can do is just memorize
the formulas and apply the formulas to each other, okay? And that just requires massive
memorization and regurgitation. That's why, if you think about it, the best mathematicians are
always in their twenties or thirties, because your brain has to be really energetic in order
to process this information. But the older you get, the less capable you are of mathematics,
okay? Does that make sense? This is really important, guys. The more math you learn,
the stupider you become, okay? But this goes against, say, philosophy or teaching, right?
The older you get, the worse you become. Why? Because the information that you're learning,
you can apply it to reality and then figure out what information makes sense as you test
this information against reality, okay? So then the question then is, why would they do this?
And the answer is very simple. To make you stupid, okay? So let's just use an analogy. Let's do a
thought experiment. The sky is blue, right? So we know the sky is blue, and now we're like, okay,
why is the sky blue? And is it always blue? And why are certain things blue, okay? From this
verb principle, the sky is blue, you can now start to ask more questions. You can, based on this idea,
start to reason out more things, okay? Does that make sense? But let's just say, I change,
and I say, the sky is red. You're like, no, the sky is blue. I'm just like, no, no, the sky is red.
If you do not say the sky is red, you are a heretic. I will burn you at the stake. And you're like,
okay, all right. So what you're saying is this. You're saying that blue is red, red is blue. And
I'm like, no, no, no. Blue is blue, red is red. The sky is red. And you're like, that makes no sense.
I'm just like, okay, well then I don't care. Because if you do not say the sky is red,
I will burn you at the stake. I will fail you in school. Do you understand? So another way of
saying this is, your brain, the way it processes information is by using logic, right? So think
about a building. Think about a building. Okay? Think about a building. Well, this makes sense,
right? You're just stacking blocks on top of each other to build a building, right? But let's just
say, I say, no, no, this is what the building looks like. Okay, this is empty. You're like,
well, that makes no sense. So what I've done by forcing the idea of the Holy Trinity onto
you is I've basically taken a part of your logical system, of your brain, and emptied it out. So
it's impossible for you to connect things, okay? Because from this, what you can do is say, oh,
now I can just keep on building more things, right? But if the principle is there's a layer
that is unseen or unknowable, you can't build on top of it, okay? So your brain sees this to be
able to process and be creative. Does that make sense? Yeah? And I saw people who learn math well
and also they have strong ability in computer science. They all work in Silicon Valley and they
are wealthy. But I think that also aligns our concept that they are pursuing the materialistic
and the world is ruled by Satan. Is that true? Yeah, okay. We'll talk about this later, okay? But
yeah, if you work in Silicon Valley, you are a materialistic person who is incapable of thinking
spiritually. Yes, that is correct. Also remember that people who do computer engineering and do
mathematics, they're at the best in their 20s and 30s. By the time they reach over 40, they kind of
burn out, okay? Because, you know, for your brain to process all this, it eventually burns out, okay?
Does that make sense? So again, I hate to say this, but math makes you stupid, all right? All right,
is that clear, guys? Any questions? Okay, but as you can see, what's happening is that because people
are forced to learn this, they don't want to learn this and it starts a series of wars within
the Roman Empire because Constantine and the Byzantine Empire is going to enforce this
orthodoxy onto every Christian church and it starts a series of wars, okay? At the same time,
the Byzantines, they are fighting the Sassanid Persia, okay? Egypt, the Levant, and this is
Arabia. Okay, so guys, this is really important. This is a time in history, this is about 500 to 600,
where there's a lot of conflict going on, okay? Remember, the first major conflict is between
Byzantine and Sassanid Persians, okay? The second major conflict is the church orthodoxy against the
independent church franchises, okay? So the Byzantine Empire is trying to enforce the
orthodoxy on all different churches, who refuse the Holy Trinity because it's just a silly idea,
okay? What this is going to do is it's going to force Christians over to the Sassanids as
well as Arabia, the desert, okay? And these are called the Necatorians. And again, they believe
that Jesus is a divine messenger as opposed to God on earth, okay? Also, we have the Jews as well,
okay? Because the Jews keep on resisting against the Romans because the Romans forced the Jews to
obey Christianity, and so the Jews escape into Arabia, okay? And at the same time, the Jews want
to return to Jerusalem, right? Now, what's interesting is that most of you don't know
this, but Arabia is, at this point in history, the most energetic, open, and cohesive society
in the Middle East, okay? So first of all, it's open because Arabia has always been a point of
trade between the Levant Egypt and the Indian civilization, okay? India, okay? So Arabia,
they do a lot of trading, but they also are great fighters because they're great mercenaries. Why?
Because as the Sassanids and the Romans fight more and more, the Arabians are recruited in as
mercenaries for their armies, and as such, they learn the most innovative warfare, and they're
poor as well, so they're really good fighters, okay? And now what's happening is that the
Arabians, the Arabs, are being exposed to new religions, the Necatorian Christianity, as well
as Judaism, okay? And both preach the coming of the Messiah, okay? So Arabia is rising in energy,
but the Bais in the Empire and the Sassanid Persians are decreasing in energy, okay? The
Baises are fighting too many wars, and they're imposing too much orthodoxy, which is turning
people into slaves, and because the Sassanids are fighting the Byzantines in war, and as the
Byzantines become more orthodox and become more bureaucratic, the Sassanids are forced to become
much more bureaucratic as well, much more orthodox as well, and so the Necatorians are also being
persecuted by the Sassanids. So the Jews want Judaism to return, and the Sassanids say to the
Jews, hey, if you fight for us, we'll return to Judaism to you, okay? And so the Byzantines,
so the Jews went back to Jerusalem, and that pisses off the Byzantines, so they come and they kill a
lot of Jews. Now the thing about the Jewish tradition is they believe that when they're
most persecuted, when all hope is lost, the Messiah will come to save them, okay? So the Jews are
like, oh my god, the Messiah is coming, the Messiah is coming, okay? The historians also believe the
Messiah is coming as well. They believe that Jesus is going to return, and what we'll take is for one
charismatic leader to emerge in the Arabian desert to say, I'm the Messiah, follow me. What I will
promise you is this, I promise you that you will have the right to believe in whatever religion you
want, because the divine spark is in you, and you know how to best celebrate God by yourself. I
promise you religious tolerance for the Jews, for the Christians, for the Arabs, for everyone,
okay? And so what will happen is this leader will emerge, and his name is Mohammed, and Mohammed
will unite Arabia, and then he will unite the historians, he will unite the Jews, and they will
together fight to get to Jerusalem back, they will fight to get to get against Persia. And guess what
happens? They basically win without much resistance, because there's so much anger, so much opposition
towards the Sassan Empire as well as the Baanistan Empire, plus both emperors are exhausted, and so
this gives us the Islamic Revolution, right? Okay? The Arabs are able to sweep through and conquer
most of the world very, very quickly. When they do so, what happens is that Mohammed dies, and now
what's gonna happen is they have lots of different factions, right? The Nisourians, the Jews, the
Arabs as well, and they're gonna fight a civil war amongst themselves as well. And then from the
civil war will emerge a new religion that we call Islam, okay? But remember, this is really important.
Mohammed himself did not preach Islam. All he preached was, I'm the Messiah, I'm the messenger of God,
like Jesus, and I will promote religious tolerance. We will have a community of believers and
followers in Jesus. But it doesn't matter if you're a Jew, it doesn't matter if you're a Christian,
it doesn't matter what type of Christian you are, you're free to believe whatever you want,
because that's what God wants. I think it worked on the, although like Mohammed said that you have
the right to believe in your divine spark, but I think they all work on the same road as Paul,
because they are formed in religion, because they follow Mohammed, but not follow themselves.
Okay, so this is really important idea you guys need to understand. The messenger of God, okay,
the leader, the Messiah, he's never like, I'm God, follow me. He's always like, I'm the messenger of
God, and the message of God is, you are divine children. The divine spark is in you. You should
not be slaves. I will free you from slavery, I will free you from tyranny, I will free you from
poverty, okay. That's always the messenger, that's always the message. What will happen later on,
after some time, is you have a figure like Paul emerge who needs, I can turn this into my own
empire, and then organization becomes organized, okay. That's always the process. So think of the
story of Thursta. When he first came, he was preaching a message. He was a poor prophet. So
is Jesus. So is Homer. So was Mohammed. But later on, people will turn his words into an empire,
okay. That's always the process, right. Okay, clear? All right. Okay, so let's do the PPT.
Okay, so we can better understand what happened. Okay, so as we discussed before, at this point,
at this point in history, the Roman Empire, it's huge, but please remember that it's not a bureaucracy,
and therefore each region is controlled by a certain noble family, okay, the patricians.
And as a result, what happened is, as, okay, and these are like the 50 top families in Rome,
and there aren't that many, okay. And remember what happened is, there are certain families that
will adapt well to the change in the Roman Empire, mainly by embracing Catholic religion,
okay, by being early investors in the Catholic Church. And as such, they will continue on to
today, we call these people the black nobility, okay. All right, so as I mentioned, there are
different migrants coming in from the steppes, the Huns, the Germanics, the Slavs, they're basically
all the steppes people, okay. But they will come into different regions, and they will absorb,
and they will absorb into Europe differently, okay. In the north, they're much more independent,
and this is where the Vikings are, okay. These are where the Germans are, they're very independent
people. But as they approach the Roman Empire, they are assimilated and absorbed by the Roman
nobility using the Catholic religion, okay. And so the people at the very bottom here, they become
Christians, okay. But they become different types of Christians, and eventually they'll fight the
Byzantines, because the Byzantines want to enforce an Orthodox Christianity onto them, okay. And this
is what Europe looks like when the Western Empire falls, okay. As you can see, there are different
societies as well. And again, what makes this possible is the fact that Western Europe, it has
a lot of mountains, so it's pretty easy to defend your territory. Okay, so this is Constantine,
and he is going to make Christianity the official religion of the Roman Empire when he becomes
emperor, okay. So again, even after Julius Caesar, the Romans cannot keep on fighting civil wars,
and Constantine wins one of them, becomes emperor, and he moves the capital from Rome all the way to
Constantinople, okay. This is really important, because now he can establish a new culture called
the Byzantine Empire, okay. They call themselves Romans, but they're not really Romans, they're more
like Greeks. Another major difference is this. Rome is over in Western Europe, Constantinople is
off in Eastern Europe, and so now Rome is now able to defend its wealthy provinces of Anatolia and
Egypt much more effectively, okay. The other thing about Constantinople that's really important is,
it's pretty easy to defend, okay, because it's by the sea, and if you build high walls, it's
almost impossible for people to invade Constantinople. This is Hagia Sophia, which is the official
church of the new religion, okay. Today we call it Eastern Orthodox, but back then it was just the
Catholic Church, okay, and this is the Hagia Sophia. This is what Constantinople looks like at its
peak, and what's really important to understand is, it's very wealthy, but as you can see, it's
surrounded by these sea walls, which makes it impossible to defend, and that's why it was able
to stand for about a thousand years, okay. The Council of Nicaea is where they make the Holy Trinity
the official doctrine of the Catholic Church. Even today, guys, if you're a Christian,
you still recite it, all right. It's called the Nessene Creed, so can you read it, Alan?
We believe in one God, the Father Almighty, maker of heaven and earth, and of all things visible and
invisible. And in one Lord Jesus Christ, the Son of God, the only begotten, begotten of the Father
before all ages, light of light, true God of true God, forgotten not made, of one essence with the
Father by whom all things were made, whom for us men and for all salvation, come down from heaven
and was incarnate of the Holy Spirit and the Virgin Mary and became man. And he was crucified for us
under Pontius Pilate and suffered and was buried. And the third day he rose again according to the
scriptures and ascended into heaven and sits at the right hand of the Father and he shall come
again with glory to judge the living and the dead, whose kingdom shall have no end and in the Holy
Spirit. So what this does is establish the idea that Jesus, God, and Holy Spirit are separate,
but they are one and the same. They are different, but they are co-equal, all right. If you actually
study this next scene in Creed, you'll find a lot of inconsistencies, okay. So Jesus Christ is the
Son of God, but he is one with God as well, okay. So if you think about it, it doesn't really make
much sense, okay. But again, the next scene in Creed is something that you don't argue over,
because you argue over it, you're a heretic, you'll be burnt at the stake, it's something that you
must memorize. It's like a math formula basically, okay. In math class you're not allowed to question
the formula, you're just forced to memorize the formula, okay. Okay, so as you can see what's
happening is that the migrants are being settled throughout Europe, okay. But once they're being
settled throughout Europe, the conflict between these noble families in Rome then becomes a
conflict amongst these different groups, okay. All right, so after the Council of Nicaea announces
the Holy Trinity, there's still a lot of resistance to it. In fact, you know, even by the year 500,
which is about 180 years after the Council of Nicaea, most of Europe is actually, they don't
really believe in the Holy Trinity, okay. So Arian just means you don't believe in the Holy
Trinity, Catholic means you do. And as you can see, this part, which is controlled by the Byzantine
Empire, it's able to enforce the Holy Trinity, but most other parts are not able to enforce the Holy
Trinity, okay. This is a really important idea to understand. The idea of the Holy Trinity only takes
force a few hundred years after it is announced, but in the beginning there's a lot of resistance
to the idea of the Holy Trinity. The Byzantine Empire must fight these wars to enforce it, okay.
And it will, because as the Byzantine Empire becomes stronger and stronger, you can see these
green arrows, it's going to fight all these wars in order to expand the idea of the Holy Trinity,
okay. And Carthago can do this because it's very wealthy and it doesn't really fear any enemies,
because of the high walls, okay.
Okay, as you can see, it's almost impossible to attack Constantinople by sea.
All right, and the Byzantine Empire under Justinian will expand and expand and enforce the Holy
Trinity on all churches, okay. And by 565, it is at the peak of its power, but as we discussed,
when the Empire reaches its peak, it's probably going to fall really quickly, and that's what happens.
All right, so because of resistance to the Holy Trinity, Christians are forced into the
Persian Empire and into the Arabian Desert, okay. At first, they're welcomed by the Persians because
these tend to be very well-educated Christians who contribute a lot to the Empire. But over time,
the Zoroastrians see the Christians as a threat and Carthago rises between the Christians and
the Zoroastrians. The Christians will also go into the Arabian Desert as well to promote Christianity,
okay. You can see how Christianity spreads. The story of Christianity also spreads to China and Japan.
All right, one thing that you need to understand is that even though we don't really discuss
Arabia a lot, it's a very important part of the world of history. This is a trade center,
okay. So if you're in India and you want to bring goods into Egypt, the best thing to do is to
sail into Muscat and then have Arabian nomads carry the goods all the way to Mecca and then
go into Egypt, okay. So the Arabian Desert, we don't talk much about it, but it is a crossroads
of empire, and it's a crossroads of culture as well. And there are Jews in the Arabian Desert
because as the Romans persecuted the Jews, the Jews escaped into Arabia
because the Romans don't like sand, okay. The Romans, what they're really good at is
besieging cities, but they hate fighting sand. That's why the Romans can never conquer Persia.
All right, so this is another map that shows the extent of the trade as well.
So as you can see, the Arabian Desert, it's connecting the world, right, because you look
at India, and India is now able to connect the world through the Arabian Desert, okay. It's able
to access Europe, the Mediterranean, and Egypt through the Arabian Desert.
Okay, so what's going to happen is that once Muhammad comes into place and unites the Arabian
Desert into a new community of followers, okay, they'll spread really quickly throughout the
world. And as you can see, there are now over a billion Muslims in the world, and you can see
how many Muslims there are in the world, okay. So there's a lot of conflict between the Roman
Empire, the Byzantines, and the Sassanids as well, okay. There are lots and lots of major battles.
These wars are exhausting both empires, and this is going to enable the Arabs to rise in power,
because as these two empires fight and their energy decreases, this energy is being transferred
to the Arabs, okay, because a lot of wealth is being transferred to the Arabs, but also a lot of
mercenaries are learning how to fight from the Byzantines as well as the Persians, okay.
Alright, so the major event that sparks the Arab Revolution is the persecution of the Jews, okay.
So, Allen, can you read please?
The Persian army, reinforced by Jewish force led by Nehama Ben-Hashur and Benjamin of Tiberius,
would capture Jerusalem without resistance.
Okay, so the Jews want to return to Jerusalem. Remember, the Romans kicked the Jews out of
Jerusalem, so they make a deal with the Persians, okay. They basically say to the Persians,
if you support us, we'll support you in the fight against the Romans, and that's what happened.
But once that happens, there are lots of Christians within Jerusalem, and they call the Byzantines
for help, and so the Byzantines come and they take, they went back to the city,
because the Christians helped them, but they started massacring a lot of Jews, okay.
The capture of Jerusalem was interpreted by Jewish writers in a Masonic context. Sacrifices may even
have been renewed on the Temple Mount. Control of the city was handled to Nehama Ben-Hashur
and Benjamin of Tiberius. Nehama was then appointed the ruler of Jerusalem. She began
making arrangements for the building of the third temple and sorting out genealogies of established
new high priesthood. Okay, so this is almost like the Bible, where the Jews were kicked out of
Jerusalem by the Babylonians, and the temple was burned down, and so what the Jews believe is like
now the new Messiah will return, we have to rebuild the third temple, because in their religion,
the Messiah will return all Jews to Jerusalem and build the third temple, okay. Alright, keep on going.
After only a few months, a Christian revolt occurred. Nehama Ben-Hashur and his council
of 16 righteous were killed along with many other Jews, some throwing themselves off the city walls.
Following the outburst of violence in Jerusalem, the surviving Jews fled to Shambara's
encampment at Caesarea. Christians were able to briefly retake the city before the walls were
breached by the Hebrus forces who laid siege to the city. Sources vary on how long the siege
lasted, depending on the source it lasted 19, 20, or 21 days. Okay, right, so the Jews take over
Jerusalem and they want to rebuild their temple, and the Christians are angry because they think
this is my city, the Christians rebel, and the Christians help them, and the Jews are massacred
and a lot escape. Where do they go? They go to the Arabian desert. Why do they go to the Arabian desert?
Because they believe the Messiah is going to come, and so they preach that, hey, the Messiah is coming,
okay, and in the Arabian desert, there's a man who believes he is the Messiah, his name is Mohamed, okay.
Alright, keep on reading. Jews were expelled from Jerusalem and were not allowed to settle within the
three mile radius. A general massacre of the Jewish population ensued. The massacre devastated
the Jewish communities of the Galilee and Jerusalem. Only those Jews who could flee
to the mountains of Egypt are said to have been spared. Okay, so this is from Wikipedia, okay?
Alright, so the first thing that Mohamed is going to do is announce the constitution of Medina,
which is to say that I'm the prophet, I am the Messiah, but what I promise you is religious
openness and tolerance. It doesn't matter if you're a Jew, it doesn't matter if you're a Christian,
it doesn't matter if you're an Arab. You can practice whatever religion you want, and it's
called the constitution of Medina, okay? That's a promise that Mohamed makes to all his followers.
Okay, and we know this from the Koran, so we're going to read the Koran together, which is the
holy book of the Muslims, and what we'll see is that Mohamed is clearly promising tolerance for
all religious factions. It doesn't matter what religion you are, you're allowed to practice
whatever you want, okay? So Alec, can you read please? Oh people of the book, why do you argue
about Abraham when the Torah and the gospel were not revealed until after him? Why you not reason?
Here you argue about things you know, but why do you argue about things you do not know?
Ahad knows, Allah knows, and you do not know. Abraham was neither a Jew nor a Christian,
but he was a monotheist, a Muslim, and he was not of the polytheist. The people most deserving
of Abraham are those who follow him, and these prophets and those who believe Allah is the
guardian of the believers. Okay, so the legend is that Mohamed, when he was 40, he went into the
desert, and in the desert he was meditating and had a revelation. An angel, Gabriel, visited him
and spoke the truth of the universe. The Koran is just a running down of all these revelations,
okay? And one major revelation is Gabriel tells Mohamed, you're all children of God,
you're all descendants of Abraham, therefore why are you guys fighting? You guys should be
working together, okay? All these differences don't matter. What's important is for you all
to remember that you all believe in the one true God. That's what matters, and these differences
don't really matter, okay?
They disbelieve with those who say Allah is the Messiah, the son of Mary, but the Messiah himself
said, oh children of Israel, worship Allah, my Lord and your Lord. Whoever has asociated others
with Allah, Allah has forbidden him paradise, and his dwelling is the fire. The wrongdoers have no
saviors. Okay, so this is really important. What the Koran is saying is this, Jesus is not God,
God is God, God is Allah. Jesus is just a messenger, okay? And the messenger himself, Jesus
himself said, worship God, don't worship me, okay? So this is a historian position, right?
Okay, Jesus is human. In heaven, he's divine, but on earth, he's human. Okay, keep on going.
They disbelieve those who say Allah is a third of three, but there is no giant accept one God.
If they do not refrain from what they say, a painful torment will befall those among them
who disbelieve. Okay, so this is saying that the Holy Trinity, it's sacrilege, it's blasphemy,
it makes no sense, man. God is God, God isn't one of three, okay? God is his God.
Keep on going. While they not repent to Allah as ask his forgiveness,
Allah is forgiving and merciful. The Messiah, son of Mary, was only a messenger, before whom
other messengers had passed away, and his mother was a woman of truth. They both used to eat food,
note how we make clear the revelation to them, that note how deluded they are.
Okay, to say that Mary is divine, to say that Jesus is divine, it's all superstitious.
They're all just messengers of the one true God, like Moses and like Moses before him, okay? And
now like Mohammed today, okay? Moses, Jesus, Mohammed are all messengers of God. Jesus was
the penultimate and Mohammed is the last, okay? The final messenger of God.
With him are the keys of the unseen, none knows them except he, and he knows everything on land
and in the sea, not at leaf falls, but he knows it. And there is not a single grain in the darkness
of earth, nor is there anything wet or dry, but is in a clear record. It is he who takes you by
night, and he knows what you earn by day, that he raises you up in it until a fixed term is fulfilled,
then to him is your return, that he will inform you of what you used to do. He is a conqueror
over his servant, and he sends guardians over you, until when death overtakes one of you,
our envoys take him away, and they never fail. Then they are brought back to Allah, the true
master. Unquestionably, he is the judgment and he is the swift test of reckoners.
This is establishing the monad, right? That's God. The monad is the universe, the monad is
everything, it's divine, okay? Stop saying Jesus is God, that makes no sense.
All right, okay. So as we discussed, now the Irian desert, it's energized, people are
energetic because people thirst for religious liberation, okay? The Christians, the Jews,
all unite behind Mohammed, and very quickly, once he's able to unite the Arabs, okay,
they're now really quickly able to expand outwards. They retake Jerusalem and they
conquer the Persian Empire very, very quickly because both of these empires, the Byzantines
and the Sassanids, are exhausted. The main advantage of the Byzantines is they still have
Constantinople, which is impossible to conquer, okay? So Constantinople is safe, but every else
falls to the Arabs, okay? And as you can see how fast their conquest is, and this is only
about a hundred years, okay? They're able to basically conquer most of the Roman Empire,
they take Spain, they take Northern Africa, they conquer Persia, okay? So really rapid conquest
because at this point in history, people are just sick of empires and they're looking for
religious liberation, okay? And over time, but over time as Mohammed dies, the Muslims will fight
amongst themselves and they will establish different empires called caliphates and they will break up
as well, okay? And this will give time for the Byzantines to reestablish themselves and then
Western Europe will become more and more powerful.
Now the Arabs will establish something called the Islamic Golden Age and this marks a time of
tremendous peace and prosperity for the world because the Muslims are able to establish trade
networks throughout the world, okay? Why? Well because when you do trade, the biggest problem
is one of trust, right? How can I trust you to take my money to somewhere else?
But if you're a Muslim, you must swear to Allah, okay? So religion requires you to be trustworthy
and that allows Muslims to work together and establish trade routes throughout the world,
but you can't really trust someone who's not Muslim, but you can trust someone who is Muslim,
okay? So these Muslims go all around the world and including into China and as such,
the Islamic Empire is able to establish trade throughout the world which brings
tremendous prosperity to most of the world, okay?
And as you can look, I'm not sure you understand Islam, but Islam is a beautiful,
simple religion that builds trust and community. This is Mecca and this is the
Hajj where Muslims come from all over the world and they circle around the kebab, the cube, okay?
So Islam considers itself as the ultimate religion because it improves on both Judaism
and Christianity, okay? Christians believe they are improvement on Judaism,
Muslims believe they are improvement on Christians and Jews as well.
Okay, now let's talk about the Western Empire, okay? Because that's where our focus will be for
the next, for the rest of the semester. In 476, the golfs destroy Rome. Why? Because
the power now is being shifted from the Empire to Catholic Church, okay? So the Empire doesn't
really have that much power. So what happens is that it recruits mercenaries to fight for them,
but it can't really pay the mercenaries. So the mercenaries in response go and sack Rome, okay?
But this time in history, Rome is no longer a power. It doesn't really matter anymore.
Augustine, who is the main architect of the Catholic Church, okay? He takes Paul's ideas
and systemizes it. He teaches us in the city of God that the Catholic Church is out of history.
It is beyond history. It is divine, okay? So the kings can fight over the land, but it's the church
who will decide who goes to heaven and who burns in hell, and that's the power of the church.
One thing to remember about Europe is that there are lots of geographic barriers
which allows for diversity within Europe, okay? That's why Europe has so many countries,
because historically it's been very hard to unify Europe because of the geography.
And this allows for tremendous diversity, and it creates a lot of conflict as well, which drives
innovation, okay? So this is when the Roman Empire falls in the west, there are lots of different
groups fighting for the remains. Now, what's really important to understand about history is
when we say the Roman Empire rises and it falls, this is our understanding of the history.
Our understanding of them, okay? But from their perspective, the empire never fell because
these warlords think that I'm the empire now, okay? And so what's going to happen is that
they're going to compete for the legacy of Rome.
And eventually, this leads to the rise of a new power,
the Franks, okay? So the Franks are expanding throughout Europe, and they see themselves as
the heir to the Roman Empire. But how do you prove that you are here to the Roman Empire?
How do you legitimize yourself? Well, you need to get the Catholic Church on your side, right?
So in about 800, Charlemagne, who is the king of the Franks, he is crowned Holy Roman Emperor
by the pope, okay? And from now on, it is the Catholic Church, the pope, who decides
who will be the Holy Roman Emperor. There's another negotiation going on, but on public,
for the public, the Holy Roman Empire is always anointed by God.
Okay, this is Charlemagne, and today he is buried in the Achan Cathedral.
One of the most beautiful buildings in the world. His body is still there, okay? That king's
cathedral. And so this is what it looks like inside. Okay, now the Catholic Church, because
of this power, is now able to anoint the Holy Roman Empire. It becomes wealthy, okay? So can
you read this, Alex, from the Bible? Yeah. Then Jesus said to his disciples,
Surely I said to you that it is hard for a rich man to enter the kingdom of heaven.
And again I say to you, it is easier for a camel to go through the eye of a needle than for a rich
man to enter the kingdom of God. So as I keep on telling you, Jesus himself was very anti-rich,
okay? He believed that the rich people, because he was too focused on material acquisitions,
could never go into heaven, okay? But the paradox is that the Catholic Church becomes extremely
wealthy, okay? If you go to the Vatican, you can still go back and visit St. Peter's Basilica,
it is one of the most beautiful buildings in the world. It is extremely wealthy. Inside, guys,
it's all gold, okay? All right, so the Vatican has been historically the wealthiest organization
in the world. And it was able to do this because Western Europe started to become very wealthy
over time, okay? So from about 1,000 to about 1,300, the population of Europe doubles because
of technological innovation, because the climate is warming, allowing for agriculture, because
of the rise of cities, and because Europe is trading with everyone, okay? So at this time,
Europe is becoming more and more wealthy, which makes the Catholic Church really, really wealthy,
okay? These are different urban centers of Europe at this time, and they engage mainly in trade.
Okay, so the church becomes a much more powerful idea than the empire, okay? Why? Well, with an
empire, it's the emperor who's in charge, right? But the emperor is still a human being, and therefore,
he can change his mind, and he doesn't really know what he's doing. But in the church, the person in
charge is God, who is perfect, immutable, and eternal, okay? So this is the ultimate authority,
the church. Second is, what is demanded? Well, an empire demands that you work hard, your labor,
but the church demands your soul, your obedience, okay? Therefore, the church is able to extract
more wealth from you. The last thing is, okay, let's say you don't obey the empire. What's
going to happen to you? Well, the empire puts you to death, okay? Not a big deal, but the church,
what it can do is say you're going to help for all of eternity, okay? That's why the Catholic
Church becomes the most powerful organization ever in human history, and it's still true today.
All right, so what makes the Catholic Church so powerful? Well, it becomes a divine bureaucracy,
okay? And what it does is establish a very strict hierarchy. So the idea of the church is that
God is distant, and God demands your obedience, right? So remember Augustine City of God,
remember Paul, right? So one thing is that when you go to church, the priest doesn't speak in
your language, the vernacular, it speaks in Latin, and we don't really understand the language, okay?
You're not allowed to read the Bible, because at this time, most people are illiterate.
The Holy Trinity makes no sense, but again, you're not asked to debate it, you're not asked to
question it, you just have to memorize it. There are lots of rituals to the Catholic Church. Some
of these rituals are just really weird. So for example, of the Eucharist, where you believe that
you're actually eating the body and blood of Jesus through the idea of transubstantiation, okay?
The Church is powerful because it can determine who goes to heaven and hell and for how long.
And ultimately, if you are a king and you don't obey the Church, the Pope can excommunicate you,
which would say, I remove you from the Christian community, and therefore any other king can come
and kill you, and it would be good in the eyes of God. Does that make sense? So this is why the
Church is so powerful, but it also helps us to explain why the Church is so corrupt as well,
they have too much power. And ultimately, they will use this power in order to enrich themselves,
okay? Remember, the Catholic Church, the people who control the Catholic Church are descendants
of the Roman nobility, okay? And they will use the Catholic Church to enrich themselves. They
set up something called indulgences, and the idea is, let's say you're a rich person and you did a
lot of bad things, and now you're afraid you'll burn in hell, right? Well, Jesus will say, too bad,
but the Catholic Church says, give us a lot of money and we'll give you an indulgence, okay?
Basically, you know, a ticket to purgatory, all right? And so, as you can see, there's a lot of
corruption going on. There's something called simony, where you can buy and sell positions
in the Catholic Church, very similar to the imperial bureaucracy of China, right?
They're selling holy relics. Priests are not really divine, they get married, they sell their
positions to nobles, and the kings are the ones who can appoint leaders of the Church, as well,
okay? So there's this negotiation going on between the Catholic Church and the kings, as well.
The parishioners, no matter how poor they are, they're forced to pay a tax. They pay a tax to
the Catholic Church and not to the king, okay? As you can imagine, the king is not really happy
about this, because a third of his land, most of his tax revenue, it's being taken over by the
Catholic Church. So that's why a lot of kings will eventually start to rebel against the Catholic
Church, okay? The Church controls one-third of all land in Europe tax-free, okay? And this leads to
feudalism. All right, so at the same time, though, even though the Catholic Church is so powerful
in Europe, it serves as a legitimacy problem, okay? Meaning, like, how does it prove that it is truly
divine? Well, you have some problems. The first problem is the Muslims occupy the Holy Land,
okay? If you truly represent God, why should you lose them in the hands of the Muslims?
Also, Spain is part of Europe, but Muslim Spain is actually much more wealthy and innovative than
the rest of Europe. 1054, the Eastern Orthodox Church, led by the Byzantines,
break with the Catholic Church, okay? Because both want to be the ultimate center of the world,
but the Byzantines say, we're the center, and the Romans say, no, we're the center, okay?
And there's corruption going on, okay? Everyone sees the corruption, but there's also
lots of religious leaders who are rebelling against the Catholic Church because they want
to unleash the divine spark, okay? So there's all these legitimacy problems going on,
and so there are different solutions, okay? One solution the Catholic Church does is that it
persecutes Jews, okay? So the Catholic Church allows Jews to exist just so that the Catholic
Church can scapegoat the Jews, and throughout this time, as you can see, Jews are being persecuted,
mainly by being forced out of their homes where they lived for hundreds of years,
okay? And a lot of them are forced to go east into the Muslim empire and to go to Spain, okay?
But over time, they're being expelled from these regions.
This is another map that shows the persecution of the Jews. As you can see, they're forced to go
east, okay? And often, there are lots of massacres as well, okay? So the black spots,
okay, the skull spots, are areas in which they were massacred. They were blamed for certain crimes,
okay?
They were blamed for certain crimes, okay?
All right, so this is a map that shows the pilgrimages of Christians
into the Holy Land, okay? And again, it's a source of embarrassment
for the Christians that their Holy Land is occupied by Muslims, and they have to pay a tax
with Muslims if they go into the Holy Land. Right now, the Holy Land, Jerusalem,
is being controlled by the Seljuk Turks, okay, the Ottoman Empire.
All right, and that's why Pope Urban II would eventually call for the Crusades to liberate
the Holy Land from the Muslims, okay? So can you read, please?
All who die by the way, whether by land or by sea, or in battle against the penguins,
shall have immediate remission of sins. Or what a disgrace if such a despised and base-raised,
which worship demons, should conquer a people which has the faith of only potent God,
and is made glorious with the name of Christ. Okay.
Okay.
Let those who have been accustomed unjustly to wage private warfare against the faithful now
go against the infidels and end with victory this war which should have been begun long ago.
Let those who for a long time have been robbers now become knights.
Let those who have been fighting against the brothers and relevates
now fight in the proper way against the barbarians. Let those who have been serving as
mercenaries for small pay now obtain the internal reward.
Okay, so this is, this is Pope Urban II saying the Crusades. It's to go and fight the demons.
If you fight a demon, it doesn't matter who you are, you could be poor, you could be rich,
you could be a simple person, you could be a nobody, but now is your opportunity to go to
heaven. Okay. Like when you go to fight the demons, you will all be guaranteed access to heaven,
no matter who you are, no matter what you did. And so a lot of people go and join the Crusades
for lots of different reasons, especially those who've committed crimes before. Okay.
So guess what? A lot of people join the Crusades are criminals because here's your opportunity to
get good with the church. Okay. That's why we see a lot of abuse during the Crusades. Okay.
So as you can see, lots of people are now joining the Crusades in order to liberate the Holy Land.
And eventually they succeed. Okay. Even though a lot of criminals,
they're still very good fighters because they have religious devotion. Okay. They're very energetic.
And unfortunately, they're too energetic. So they have a tendency to massacre people when they
succeed because they literally see the Muslims and the Jews as demons. That's what the Pope taught them.
One organization that developed during the Crusades, it's called the Knights Templars. Okay.
This is very important. We'll be discussing Knights Templars later on. Okay. But the Knights
Templars, it's really the first multinational bank because these pilgrims are going the whole
land and they need to bring money with them to fund the journey. But if they take a lot of money
with them, then they'll get robbed. Right. So what they'll do is they'll give the money to the Knights
Templars. And then when they get to Jerusalem, the Knights Templars will give the money back to them.
Okay. So they're a bank basically, and then they can use this money to start investing
throughout Europe. And so they become a very wealthy organization. The problem is that
because in Jerusalem and away from the authority of the Catholic Church, they start to embrace
new ideas. They start to discover the true nature of Jesus from the Muslims and from other Christians
in that area. And so the church thinks that they become more corrupt over time. And that's why
their leader, Jacques de Molay, he is burnt at the stake. And in 1307, the organization is
banned by the Catholic Church. But a lot of survivors, they will go over to other places
and they will form the basis of a secret society we call the Freemasons. Okay. So we'll discuss
the Freemasons later on. Okay. There's also something called the Albigynese Crusade. So
there are still individuals who believe in the divine spark. Okay. And these people are called
Cathars. And the church sees them as a threat. And that's why they launched a crusade against
these Cathars. Okay. So can you read Alan? Okay. So again, the Catholic Church is,
if you disagree with us, it doesn't mean you're a heretic. It just means you're stupid. So we
first want to educate you in what is right. Okay. The Cathars believe that, no,
no, the divine spark is in me. I know the truth for myself. You can never convince me. Okay. Keep
on going. Ultimately, only three women recanted. The 140 who refused were burned at the stake.
Some entered the flames voluntarily, not awaiting their executioners. So if you believe in the divine
spark, okay, you believe you've discovered truth, you're not afraid of death. So the Cathars are
saying like, if you don't, we can't, we'll burn you at the stake. The Cathars are like, good.
In August, the crusade proceeded to besiege the stronghold of Termis. Despite Salis from
period rogues, the siege was solid. The occupants of Termis suffered from a shortage of water,
and Romans, the Termis agreed to a temporary truce. The Cathars were briefly relieved
by an intense rainstorm and so Roman refused to surrender. Ultimately, the defenders were not
able to break the siege, and on 22 November, the Cathars managed to abandon the city and escape.
By the time operations resumed in 1211, the actions of Honored Armory and Seaman D. Montfort
had alienated several important lords, including Raymond D. Tullos, who has been excommunicated
again. So as you can see, what's really important to understand is the crusade against Cathars is not
just a religious crusade, it's also one of geopolitics where the local lords resent the
power of the Catholic Church, and so they support the Cathars, okay? And this is going to happen
throughout Europe. So the response of the Church is to establish a new society led by Francis of
Sisi called the Dominicans, okay, the Dominicans, which goes and basically tries to figure out
who the Cathars are, okay, by interrogating everyone. And this leads to, of course, the
Inquisition, okay? And so the idea is that if you disagree with Church Orthodoxy, they will figure
it out, and if you refuse to recant, if you refuse to obey, they will burn you at the stake, okay?
So at this time in history, because of the Inquisition, because of the Catholic Church,
Western Europe is one of the least innovative places in the world, okay?
All right, and at first this is fine, but eventually bad things start to happen in Europe,
okay? So the Little Ice Age begins, then you have the Great Famine, then you have more wars, then you
have Benetree, okay, and then of course you have the Black Death. So if the Catholic Church represents
the will of God, and all this is happening, then is God really happy with the Catholic Church, right?
So this is a Black Death which kills about a third of the European population, and people,
because they're religious, they think that this is the will of God. It's because the Catholic Church,
it's corrupt, it's evil, it's stagnant, that's why God is punishing us, okay?
And this will lead to conflict within Europe, where the Catholic Church is actually broken
into different parts as well, okay? So there are some who believe that Rome is the true center of
the Catholic Church, and there are other people who believe that Ammonon, okay, is the true center of
the Catholic Church, and this creates even more legitimacy problems with the Catholic Church.
And this creates even more legitimacy problems with the Catholic Church.
All right, and then you have individuals who will emerge to challenge the orthodoxy of the
Catholic Church, okay? So this is Fred DoSina, we won't read. John Wyclef is a British person who was,
he was not punished when he was alive, but afterwards, after he died,
they decided he was a heretic, so what they did was they dug up his body and then burned up the
stake, to make sure he burned in hell, okay? Jan Hus will lead a revolution, okay? And this is called
the Heusig Wars, and none succeed, but then another man will emerge called Martin Luther,
who will eventually lead a successful revolution against the Catholic Church, and this is called
Protestantism, okay? And we'll discuss Martin Luther next class. Next class we'll discuss
the rise of capitalism, all right? Any questions, guys? Yes?
Like, there's a case of my mother's friend telling me that her husband has a
severe cancer, and they try to pray to the Catholic Church, and later the cancer just
disappears, and they said it is a miracle by the Catholic Church, and they all believe in the
Catholic Church, can it explain the miracle? Like, is there really a miracle there? Okay,
yeah, okay, back to your question, okay. So this is what we call the placebo effect,
okay? The placebo effect is basically, you feel really sick, and you're like, doctor, doctor,
I'm really sick, I'm gonna die, is there any medicine that can save me? And I'm a doctor,
and I don't want to say there is no medicine, so I say, okay, well, here's some, here's a medicine,
okay? It might help you, but this medicine does nothing. You take this medicine, and then you feel
better, you get better, and this happens a lot, okay? It's called the placebo effect. So why does
this happen? It happens because if you understand that mind leads to matter, then your reality
is shaped by your perception, your belief, okay? So if you believe that this medicine
can improve your body, then it will have effects, okay? The question, though, is
how much do you really believe in this medicine, okay? So you can argue that cancer,
it's really a question of loss of faith. What is cancer? Cancer is a splitting of cells, right?
So why is your body literally falling apart? It's because you've stopped believing in yourself,
you've stopped believing in the purpose of life, you've stopped believing that you have relevance
in the world, okay? So when you say, I want to cure my cancer, I want to cure my cancer,
what you're really saying is, I want to find a new faith, I want to believe in myself again,
I want to reestablish my relevance in the world, okay? Does that make sense? So you have that
desire. When you have that desire, then the cure makes sense, okay? So another way of saying this
is, okay, let's just say that you don't feel well, right? Well, if your parents make you go see a
psychiatrist, you probably won't feel better, but if you yourself want to get better and you go see
a psychiatrist, you'll probably get better, okay? So why this person, why he or she improved his or
her cancer is because of faith, okay? She won't get better. So if you're able to orientate your
mind in a certain way, you're capable of tremendous miracles. Another idea is the idea of meditation,
right? If you're able to control your thoughts, if you're able to calm yourself down, your body will
heal a lot faster, okay? Does that make sense? All right, great. Any more questions?
Okay, great. So next class, we'll discuss capitalism.
